ALSO AVAILABLE FROM

LAUREL-LEAF BOOKS

SUMMER OF THE MONKEYS, Wilson

Rawls

JOHNNY TREMAIN, Esther Forbes

THE WITCH OF BLACKBIRD POND

Elizabeth George Speare

THE CHOCOLATE WAR, Robert

Cormier

BEYOND THE CHOCOLATE WAR,

Robert Cormier

NUMBER THE STARS, Lois Lowry

SHANE, Jack Schaefer



Published by Laurel-Leaf

an imprint of Random House Children’s Books

a division of Random House, Inc.

New York

This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and

incidents either are the product of the author’s

imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to

actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is

entirely coincidental.

Copyright © 1961 by Woodrow Wilson Rawls

Copyright © 1961 by The Curtis Publishing Company

All rights reserved.

Originally published in hardcover in the United States by

Doubleday Books for Young Readers, New York, in

1961. This edition published by arrangement with

Doubleday Books for Young Readers.

Laurel-Leaf and colophon are registered trademarks of

Random House, Inc.

Visit us on the Web! www.randomhouse.com/teens

Educators and librarians, for a variety of teaching tools,

visit us at

www.randomhouse.com/teachers

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is

available on request.

eISBN: 978-0-307-78156-7

RL: 6.0

May 2001

Random House Children’s Books supports the First

Amendment and celebrates the right to read.

v3.1

To my wonderful wife

without whose help this book

would not have been

written

Contents

Cover

Also Available from Laurel-Leaf Books

Title Page

Copyright

Dedication

Chapter I

Chapter II

Chapter III

Chapter IV

Chapter V

Chapter VI

Chapter VII

Chapter VIII

Chapter IX

Chapter X

Chapter XI

Chapter XII

Chapter XIII

Chapter XIV

Chapter XV

Chapter XVI

Chapter XVII

Chapter XVIII

Chapter XIX

Chapter XX

About the Author

I

WHEN I LEFT MY OFFICE THAT BEAUTIFUL SPRING

DAY, I HAD no idea what was in store for me.

To begin with, everything was too perfect

for anything unusual to happen. It was one

of those days when a man feels good, feels

like speaking to his neighbor, is glad to

live in a country like ours, and proud of

his government. You know what I mean,

one of those rare days when everything is

right and nothing is wrong.

I was walking along whistling when I

heard the dogfight. At first I paid no

attention to it. After all it wasn’t anything

to get excited about, just another dogfight

in a residential section.

As the sound of the fight grew nearer, I

could tell there were quite a few dogs

mixed up in it. They boiled out of an alley,

turned, and headed straight toward me.

Not wanting to get bitten or run over, I

moved over to the edge of the sidewalk.

I could see that all the dogs were

fighting one. About twenty-five feet from

me they caught him and down he went. I

felt sorry for the unfortunate one. I knew if

something wasn’t done quickly the

sanitation department would have to pick

up a dead dog.

I was trying to make up my mind to help

when I got a surprise. Up out of that

snarling, growling, slashing mass reared

an old redbone hound. For a second I saw

him. I caught my breath. I couldn’t believe

what I had seen.

Twisting and slashing, he fought his

way through the pack and backed up under

the low branches of a hedge. Growling

and snarling, they formed a halfmoon

circle around him. A big bird dog, bolder

than the others, darted in. The hedge shook

as he tangled with the hound. He came out

so fast he fell over backwards. I saw that

his right ear was split wide open. It was

too much for him and he took off down the

street, squalling like a scalded cat.

A big ugly cur tried his luck. He didn’t

get off so easy. He came out with his left

shoulder laid open to the bone. He sat

down on his rear and let the world know

that he had been hurt.

By this time, my fighting blood was

boiling. It’s hard for a man to stand and

watch an old hound fight against such

odds, especially if that man has memories

in his heart like I had in mine. I had seen

the time when an old hound like that had

given his life so that I might live.

Taking off my coat, I waded in. My

yelling and scolding didn’t have much

effect, but the swinging coat did. The dogs

scattered and left.

Down on my knees, I peered back under

the hedge. The hound was still mad. He

growled at me and showed his teeth. I

knew it wasn’t his nature to fight a man.

In a soft voice, I started talking to him.

“Come on, boy,” I said. “It’s all right. I’m

your friend. Come on now.”

The fighting fire slowly left his eyes.

He bowed his head and his long, red tail

started thumping the ground. I kept

coaxing. On his stomach, an inch at a time,

he came to me and laid his head in my

hand.

I almost cried at what I saw. His coat

was dirty and mud-caked. His skin was

stretched drum-tight over his bony frame.

The knotty joints of his hips and shoulders

stood out a good three inches from his

body. I could tell he was starved.

I couldn’t figure it out. He didn’t belong

in town. He was far out of place with the

boxers, poodles, bird dogs, and other

breeds of town dogs. He belonged in the

country. He was a hunting hound.

I raised one of his paws. There I read

the story. The pads were worn down slick

as the rind on an apple. I knew he had

come a long way, and no doubt had a long

way to go. Around his neck was a crude

collar. On closer inspection, I saw it had

been made from a piece of check-line

leather. Two holes had been punched in

each end and the ends were laced together

with bailing wire.

As I turned the collar with my finger, I

saw something else. There, scratched

deep in the tough leather, was the name

“Buddie.” I guessed that the crude,

scribbly letters had probably been written

by a little boy.

It’s strange indeed how memories can

lie dormant in a man’s mind for so many

years. Yet those memories can be

awakened and brought forth fresh and

new, just by something you’ve seen, or

something you’ve heard, or the sight of an

old familiar face.

What I saw in the warm gray eyes of the

friendly

old

hound

brought

back

wonderful memories. To show my

gratitude, I took hold of his collar and

said, “Come on, boy, let’s go home and

get something to eat.”

He seemed to understand that he had

found a friend. He came willingly.

I gave him a bath and rubbed all the

soreness from his muscles. He drank

quarts of warm milk and ate all the meat I

had in the house. I hurried down to the

store and bought more. He ate until he was

satisfied.

He slept all that night and most of the

next day. Late in the afternoon he grew

restless. I told him I understood, and as

soon as it was dark, he could be on his

way. I figured he had a much better chance

if he left town at night.

That evening, a little after sundown, I

opened the back gate. He walked out,

stopped, turned around, and looked at me.

He thanked me by wagging his tail.

With tears in my eyes, I said, “You’re

more than welcome, old fellow. In fact,

you could’ve stayed here as long as you

wanted to.”

He whined and licked my hand.

I was wondering which way he would

go. With one final whimper he turned and

headed east. I couldn’t help smiling as I

watched him trot down the alley. I noticed

the way his hind quarters shifted over to

the right, never in line with the front, yet

always in perfect rhythm. His long ears

flopped up and down, keeping time with

the jogging motion of his body. Yes, they

were all there, the unmistakable marks of

a hunting hound.

Where the alley emptied into the street,

he stopped and looked back. I waved my

hand.

As I watched him disappear in the

twilight shadows, I whispered these

words: “Good-bye, old fellow. Good

luck, and good hunting!”

I didn’t have to let him go. I could have

kept him in my back yard, but to pen up a

dog like that is a sin. It would have broken

his heart. The will to live would have

slowly left his body.

I had no idea where he had come from

or where he was going. Perhaps it wasn’t

too far, or maybe it was a long, long way.

I tried to make myself believe that his

home was in the Ozark Mountains

somewhere in Missouri, or Oklahoma. It

wasn’t impossible even though it was a

long way from the Snake River Valley in

Idaho.

I figured something drastic must have

happened in his life, as it is very unusual

for a hound to be traveling all alone.

Perhaps he had been stolen, or maybe he

had been sold for some much-needed

money. Whatever it was that had

interrupted his life, he was trying to

straighten it out. He was going home to the

master he loved, and with the help of God,

he would make it.

To him it made no difference how long

the road, or how rough or rocky. His old

red feet would keep jogging along, on and

on, mile after mile. There would be no

crying or giving up. When his feet grew

tired and weary, he would curl up in the

weeds and rest. Water from a rain puddle

or a mountain stream would quench his

thirst and cool his hot dry throat. Food

found along the highway, or the offerings

from a friendly hand would ease the pangs

of hunger. Through the rains, the snows, or

the desert heat, he would jog along, never

looking back.

Some morning he would be found

curled up on the front porch. The long

journey would be over. He would be

home. There would be a lot of tail-

wagging and a few whimpering cries. His

warm moist tongue would caress the hand

of his master. All would be forgiven.

Once again the lights would shine in his

dog’s world. His heart would be happy.

After my friend had disappeared in the

darkness, I stood and stared at the empty

alley. A strange feeling came over me. At

first I thought I was lonely or sad, but I

realized that wasn’t it at all. The feeling

was a wonderful one.

Although the old hound had no way of

knowing it, he had stirred memories, and

what priceless treasures they were.

Memories of my boyhood days, an old K.

C. Baking Powder can, and two little red

hounds. Memories of a wonderful love,

unselfish devotion, and death in its

saddest form.

As I turned to enter my yard I started to

lock the gate, and then I thought, “No, I’ll

leave it open. He might come back.”

I was about halfway to the house when

a cool breeze drifted down from the

rugged Tetons. It had a bite in it and

goosepimples jumped out on my skin. I

stopped at the woodshed and picked up

several sticks of wood.

I didn’t turn on any lights on entering

the house. The dark, quiet atmosphere was

a perfect setting for the mood I was in. I

built a fire in the fireplace and pulled up

my favorite rocker.

As I sat there in the silence, the fire

grew larger. It crackled and popped.

Firelight shadows began to shimmer and

dance around the room. The warm,

comfortable heat felt good.

I struck a match to light my pipe. As I

did, two beautiful cups gleamed from the

mantel. I held the match up so I could get a

better look. There they were, sitting side

by side. One was large with long, upright

handles that stood out like wings on a

morning dove. The highly polished surface

gleamed and glistened with a golden

sheen. The other was smaller and made of

silver. It was neat and trim, and sparkled

like a white star in the heavens.

I got up and took them down. There was

a story in those cups—a story that went

back more than a half century.

As I caressed the smooth surfaces, my

mind drifted back through the years, back

to my boyhood days. How wonderful the

memories were. Piece by piece the story

unfolded.

II

I SUPPOSE THERE’S A TIME IN PRACTICALLY EVERY

YOUNG boy’s life when he’s affected by that

wonderful disease of puppy love. I don’t

mean the kind a boy has for the pretty little

girl that lives down the road. I mean the

real kind, the kind that has four small feet

and a wiggly tail, and sharp little teeth that

can gnaw on a boy’s finger; the kind a boy

can romp and play with, even eat and

sleep with.

I was ten years old when I first became

infected with this terrible disease. I’m

sure no boy in the world had it worse than

I did. It’s not easy for a young boy to want

a dog and not be able to have one. It starts

gnawing on his heart, and gets all mixed

up in his dreams. It gets worse and worse,

until finally it becomes almost unbearable.

If my dog-wanting had been that of an

ordinary boy, I’m sure my mother and

father would have gotten me a puppy, but

my wants were different. I didn’t want just

one dog. I wanted two, and not just any

kind of a dog. They had to be a special

kind and a special breed.

I had to have some dogs. I went to my

father and had a talk with him. He

scratched his head and thought it over.

“Well, Billy,” he said, “I heard that Old

Man Hatfield’s collie is going to have

pups. I’m sure I can get one of them for

you.”

He may as well have poured cold water

on me. “Papa,” I said, “I don’t want an old

collie dog. I want hounds—coon hounds

—and I want two of them.”

I could tell by the look on his face that

he wanted to help me, but couldn’t.

He said, “Billy, those kind of dogs cost

money, and that’s something we don’t

have right now. Maybe some day when we

can afford it, you can have them, but not

right now.”

I didn’t give up. After my talk with

Papa, I went to Mama. I fared no better

there. Right off she said I was too young to

be hunting with hounds. Besides, a hunter

needed a gun, and that was one thing I

couldn’t have, not until I was twenty-one

anyway.

I couldn’t understand it. There I was

sitting right in the middle of the finest

hunting country in the world and I didn’t

even have a dog.

Our home was in a beautiful valley far

back in the rugged Ozarks. The country

was new and sparsely settled. The land

we lived on was Cherokee land, allotted

to my mother because of the Cherokee

blood that flowed in her veins. It lay in a

strip from the foothills of the mountains to

the banks of the Illinois River in

northeastern Oklahoma.

The land was rich, black, and fertile.

Papa said it would grow hair on a

crosscut saw. He was the first man to stick

the cold steel point of a turning plow into

the virgin soil.

Mama had picked the spot for our log

house. It nestled at the edge of the foothills

in the mouth of a small canyon, and was

surrounded by a grove of huge red oaks.

Behind our house one could see miles and

miles of the mighty Ozarks. In the spring

the aromatic scent of wild flowers,

redbuds, papaws, and dogwoods, drifting

on the wind currents, spread over the

valley and around our home.

Below our fields, twisting and winding,

ran the clear blue waters of the Illinois

River. The banks were cool and shady.

The rich bottom land near the river was

studded with tall sycamores, birches, and

box elders.

To a ten-year-old country boy it was the

most beautiful place in the whole wide

world, and I took advantage of it all. I

roamed the hills and the river bottoms. I

knew every game trail in the thick

canebrakes, and every animal track that

was pressed in the mud along the

riverbanks.

The ones that fascinated me the most

were the baby-like tracks of a river coon.

I’d lie for hours examining them. Before

leaving, I’d take a switch and sweep them

all away. These I called my “trail looks.”

The next day I’d hurry back, and sure

enough, nine times out of ten, there in the

clean-swept ground I would again find the

tracks of a ringtail coon.

I knew he had passed over the trail

during the night. I could close my eyes and

almost see him, humped up and waddling

along, fishing under the banks with his

delicate little paws for crawfish, frogs,

and minnows.

I was a hunter from the time I could

walk. I caught lizards on the rail fences,

rats in the corncrib, and frogs in the little

creek that ran through the fields. I was a

young Daniel Boone.

As the days passed, the dog-wanting

disease grew worse. I began to see dogs

in my sleep. I went back to my father and

mother. It was the same old story. Good

hounds cost money, and they just didn’t

have it.

My dog-wanting became so bad I began

to lose weight and my food didn’t taste

good any more. Mama noticed this and she

had a talk with Papa.

“You’re

going

to

have

to

do

something,” she said. “I never saw a boy

grieve like that. It’s not right, not right at

all.”

“I know,” said Papa, “and I feel just as

badly as you do, but what can I do? You

know we don’t have that kind of money.”

“I don’t care,” said Mama. “You’ve got

to do something. I can’t stand to see him

cry like that. Besides he’s getting to be a

problem. I can’t get my work done. He

follows me around all day long begging

for hounds.”

“I offered to get him a dog,” said Papa,

“but he doesn’t want just any kind of dog.

He wants hounds, and they cost money. Do

you know what the Parker boys paid for

those two hounds they bought? Seventy-

five dollars! If I had that much money, I’d

buy another mule. I sure do need one.”

I had overheard this conversation from

another room. At first it made me feel

pretty good. At least I was getting to be a

problem. Then I didn’t feel so good. I

knew my mother and father were poor and

didn’t have any money. I began to feel

sorry for them and myself.

After thinking it over, I figured out a

way to help. Even though it was a great

sacrifice, I told Papa I had decided I

didn’t want two hounds. One would be

enough. I saw the hurt in his eyes. It made

me feel like someone was squeezing water

out of my heart.

Papa set me on his lap and we had a

good talk. He told me how hard times

were, and that it looked like a man

couldn’t get a fair price for anything he

raised. Some of the farmers had quit

farming and were cutting railroad ties so

they could feed their families. If things

didn’t get better, that’s what he’d have to

do. He said he’d give anything if he could

get some good hounds for me, but there

didn’t seem to be any way he could right

then.

I went off to bed with my heart all torn

up in little pieces, and cried myself to

sleep.

The next day Papa had to go to the

store. Late that evening I saw him coming

back. As fast as I could, I ran to meet him,

expecting a sack of candy. Instead he

handed me three small steel traps.

If Santa Claus himself had come down

out of the mountains, reindeer and all, I

would not have been more pleased. I

jumped up and down, and cried a whole

bucketful of tears. I hugged him and told

him what a wonderful papa he was.

He showed me how to set them by

mashing the spring down with my foot,

and how to work the trigger. I took them to

bed with me that night.

The next morning I started trapping

around the barn. The first thing I caught

was Samie, our house cat. If this didn’t

cause a commotion! I didn’t intend to

catch him. I was trying to catch a rat, but

somehow he came nosing around and got

in my trap.

My sisters started bawling and yelling

for Mama. She came running, wanting to

know what in the world was going on.

None of us had to tell her. Samie told her

with his spitting and squalling.

He was mad. He couldn’t understand

what that thing was that was biting his

foot, and he was making an awful fuss

about it. His tail was as big as a wet

corncob and every hair on his small body

was sticking straight up. He spit and

yowled and dared anyone to get close to

him.

My sisters yelled their fool heads off,

all the time saying, “Poor Samie! Poor

Samie!”

Mama shushed them up and told me to

go get the forked stick from under the

clothesline. I ran and got it.

Mama was the best helper a boy ever

had. She put the forked end over Samie’s

neck and pinned him to the ground.

It was bad enough for the trap to be

biting his foot, but to have his neck pinned

down that way was too much. He threw a

fit. I never heard such a racket in all my

life.

It wasn’t long until everything on the

place was all spooked up. The chickens

started cackling and flew way up on the

hillside. Daisy, our milk cow, all but tore

the barn lot up and refused to give any

milk that night. Sloppy Ann, our hog,

started running in circles, squealing and

grunting.

Samie wiggled and twisted. He yowled

and spit, but it didn’t do him any good.

Mama was good and stout. She held him

down, tight to the ground. I ran in and put

my foot on the trap spring, mashed it

down, and released his foot. With one

loud squall, he scooted under the barn.

After it was all over, Mama said, “I

don’t think you’ll have any more trouble

with that cat. I think he has learned his

lesson.”

How wrong Mama was. Samie was one

of those nosy kind of cats. He would lie

up on the red oak limbs and watch every

move I made.

I found some slick little trails out in our

garden down under some tall hollyhocks.

Thinking they were game trails, and not

knowing they were Samie’s favorite

hunting trails, I set my traps. Samie

couldn’t understand what I was doing out

there, messing around his hunting territory.

He went to investigate.

It wasn’t long until I had him limping

with all four feet. Every time Papa saw

Samie lying around in the warm sun with

his feet wrapped up in turpentine rags, he

would laugh until big tears rolled down

his cheeks.

Mama had another talk with Papa. She

said he was going to have to say

something to me, because if I caught that

cat one more time, it would drive her out

of her mind.

Papa told me to be a little more careful

where I set my traps.

“Papa,” I said, “I don’t want to catch

Samie, but he’s the craziest cat I ever saw.

He sees everything I do, and just has to go

sniffing around.”

Papa looked over at Samie. He was

lying all sprawled out in the sunshine with

all four paws bandaged and sticking

straight up. His long tail was swishing this

way and that.

“You see, Papa,” I said, “he’s watching

me right now, just waiting for me to set my

traps.”

Papa walked off toward the barn. I

heard him laughing fit to kill.

It finally got too tough for Samie. He

left home. Oh, he came in once in a while,

all long and lean looking, but he never

was the same friendly cat any more. He

was nervous and wouldn’t let anyone pet

him. He would gobble down his milk and

then scoot for the timber.

Once I decided to make friends with

him because I felt bad about catching him

in my traps. I reached out my hand to rub

his back. He swelled up like a sitting hen.

His eyeballs got all green, and he growled

way down deep. He spat at me, and drew

back his paw like he was going to knock

my head off. I decided I’d better leave him

alone.

In no time at all I cleaned out the rats.

Then something bad happened. I caught

one of Mama’s prize hens. I got one of

those “young man peach tree” switchings

over that.

Papa told me to go down in the

canebrakes back of our fields and trap.

This opened up all kinds of new wonders.

I caught opossums, skunks, rabbits, and

squirrels.

Papa showed me how to skin my game.

In neat little rows I tacked the hides on the

smokehouse wall. I’d stand for hours and

admire my magnificent trophies.

There was only one thing wrong. I

didn’t have a big coonskin to add to my

collection. I couldn’t trap old Mister

Ringtail. He was too smart for me. He’d

steal the bait from the traps, spring the

triggers, and sometimes even turn them

over.

Once I found a small stick standing

upright in one of my traps. I showed it to

Papa. He laughed and said the stick must

have fallen from a tree. It made no

difference what Papa said. I was firmly

convinced that a smart old coon had

deliberately poked that stick in my trap.

The traps helped my dog-wanting

considerably, but like a new toy, the

newness wore off and I was right back

where I started from. Only this time it was

worse, much worse. I had been exposed to

the feel of wildlife.

I started pestering Mama again. She

said, “Oh, no! Not that again. I thought

you’d be satisfied with the traps. No,

Billy, I don’t want to hear any more about

hounds.”

I knew Mama meant what she said. This

broke my heart. I decided I’d leave home.

I sneaked out a quart jar of peaches, some

cold corn bread, and a few onions, and

started up the hollow back of our house. I

had it all figured out. I’d go away off to

some big town, get a hundred dogs, and

bring them all back with me.

I made it all right until I heard a timber

wolf howl. This stopped my home-

leaving.

When the hunting season opened that

fall, something happened that was almost

more than I could stand. I was lying in bed

one night trying to figure out a way I could

get some dogs when I heard the deep

baying of a coon hound. I got up and

opened my window. It came again. The

deep voice rang loud and clear in the

frosty night. Now and then I could hear the

hunter whooping to him.

The hound hunted all night. He quit

when the roosters started crowing at

daybreak. The hunter and the hound

weren’t the only ones awake that night. I

stayed up and listened to them until the

last tones of the hound’s voice died away

in the daylight hours.

That morning I was determined to have

some hounds. I went again to Mama. This

time I tried bribery. I told her if she’d get

me a hunting dog, I’d save the money I

earned from my furs, and buy her a new

dress and a boxful of pretty hats.

That time I saw tears in her eyes. It

made me feel all empty inside and I cried

a little, too. By the time she was through

kissing me and talking to me, I was sure I

didn’t need any dogs at all. I couldn’t

stand to see Mama cry.

The next night I heard the hound again. I

tried to cover my head with a pillow to

shut out the sound. It was no use. His

voice seemed to bore its way through the

pillow and ring in my ears. I had to get up

and again go to the window. I’m sure if

that coon hunter had known that he was

slowly killing a ten-year-old boy, he

would have put a muzzle on his hound.

Sleep was out of the question. Even on

nights when I couldn’t hear the hound, I

couldn’t sleep. I was afraid if I did, he

would come and I would miss hearing

him.

By the time hunting season was over, I

was a nervous wreck. My eyes were red

and bloodshot. I had lost weight and was

as thin as a bean pole. Mama checked me

over. She looked at my tongue and turned

back one of my eyelids.

“If I didn’t know better,” she said, “I’d

swear you weren’t sleeping well. Are

you?”

“Why, Mama,” I said, “I go to bed,

don’t I? What does a boy go to bed for if it

isn’t to sleep?”

By the little wrinkles that bunched up

on her forehead, I could tell that Mama

wasn’t satisfied. Papa came in during one

of these inspections. Mama told him she

was worried about my health.

“Aw,” he said, “there’s nothing wrong

with him. It’s just because he’s been

cooped up all winter. A boy needs

sunshine, and exercise. He’s almost

eleven now, and I’m going to let him help

me in the fields this summer. That will put

the muscles back on him.”

I thought this was wonderful. I’d finally

grown up to be a man. I was going to help

Papa with the farm.

III

THE DOG-WANTING DISEASE NEVER DID LEAVE ME

ALTOGETHER. With the new work I was

doing, helping Papa, it just kind of burned

itself down and left a big sore on my

heart. Every time I’d see a coon track

down in our fields, or along the

riverbanks, the old sore would get all

festered up and start hurting again.

Just when I had given up all hope of

ever owning a good hound, something

wonderful happened. The good Lord

figured I had hurt enough, and it was time

to lend a helping hand.

It all started one day while I was hoeing

corn down in our field close to the river.

Across the river, a party of fishermen had

been camped for several days. I heard the

old Maxwell car as it snorted and chugged

its way out of the bottoms. I knew they

were leaving. Throwing down my hoe, I

ran down to the river and waded across at

a place called the Shannon Ford. I hurried

to the campground.

It was always a pleasure to prowl

where fishermen had camped. I usually

could find things: a fish line, or a forgotten

fish pole. On one occasion, I found a

beautiful knife stuck in the bark of a

sycamore tree, forgotten by a careless

fisherman. But on that day, I found the

greatest of treasures, a sportsman’s

magazine, discarded by the campers. It

was a real treasure for a country boy.

Because of that magazine, my entire life

was changed.

I sat down on an old sycamore log, and

started thumbing through the leaves. On

the back pages of the magazine, I came to

the “For Sale” section—“Dogs for

Sale”—every kind of dog. I read on and

on. They had dogs I had never heard of,

names I couldn’t make out. Far down in

the right-hand corner, I found an ad that

took my breath away. In small letters, it

read: “Registered redbone coon hound

pups—twenty-five dollars each.”

The advertisement was from a kennel in

Kentucky. I read it over and over. By the

time I had memorized the ad, I was seeing

dogs, hearing dogs, and even feeling them.

The magazine was forgotten. I was lost in

thought. The brain of an eleven-year-old

boy can dream some fantastic dreams.

How wonderful it would be if I could

have two of those pups. Every boy in the

country but me had a good hound or two.

But fifty dollars—how could I ever get

fifty dollars? I knew I couldn’t expect help

from Mama and Papa.

I remembered a passage from the Bible

my mother had read to us: “God helps

those who help themselves.” I thought of

the words. I mulled them over in my mind.

I decided I’d ask God to help me. There

on the banks of the Illinois River, in the

cool shade of the tall white sycamores, I

asked God to help me get two hound pups.

It wasn’t much of a prayer, but it did come

right from the heart.

When I left the campground of the

fishermen, it was late. As I walked along,

I could feel the hard bulge of the magazine

jammed deep in the pocket of my overalls.

The beautiful silence that follows the

setting sun had settled over the river

bottoms. The coolness of the rich, black

soil felt good to my bare feet.

It was the time of day when all furried

things come to life. A big swamp rabbit

hopped out on the trail, sat on his

haunches, stared at me, and then

scampered away. A mother gray squirrel

ran out on the limb of a burr oak tree. She

barked a warning to the four furry balls

behind her. They melted from sight in the

thick green. A silent gray shadow drifted

down from the top of a tall sycamore.

There was a squeal and a beating of

wings. I heard the tinkle of a bell in the

distance ahead. I knew it was Daisy, our

milk cow. I’d have to start her on the way

home.

I took the magazine from my pocket and

again I read the ad. Slowly a plan began to

form. I’d save the money. I could sell stuff

to the fishermen: crawfish, minnows, and

fresh vegetables. In berry season, I could

sell all the berries I could pick at my

grandfather’s store. I could trap in the

winter. The more I planned, the more real

it became. There was the way to get those

pups—save my money.

I could almost feel the pups in my

hands. I planned the little doghouse, and

where to put it. Collars I could make

myself. Then the thought came, “What

could I name them?” I tried name after

name, voicing them out loud. None

seemed to fit. Well, there would be plenty

of time for names.

Right now there was something more

important—fifty dollars—a fabulous sum

—a fortune—far more money than I had

ever seen. Somehow, some way, I was

determined to have it. I had twenty-three

cents—a dime I had earned running

errands for my grandpa, and thirteen cents

a fisherman had given me for a can of

worms.

The next morning I went to the trash

pile behind the barn. I was looking for a

can—my bank. I picked up several, but

they didn’t seem to be what I wanted.

Then I saw it, an old K. C. Baking Powder

can. It was perfect, long and slender, with

a good tight lid. I took it down to the creek

and scrubbed it with sand until it was

bright and new-looking.

I dropped the twenty-three cents in the

can. The coins looked so small lying there

on the shiny bottom, but to me it was a

good start. With my finger, I tried to

measure how full it would be with fifty

dollars in it.

Next, I went to the barn and up in the

loft. Far back over the hay and up under

the eaves, I hid my can. I had a start

toward making my dreams come true—

twenty-three cents. I had a good bank, safe

from the rats and from the rain and snow.

All through that summer I worked like a

beaver. In the small creek that wormed its

way down through our fields, I caught

crawfish with my bare hands. I trapped

minnows with an old screen-wire trap I

made myself, baited with yellow corn

bread from my mother’s kitchen. These

were sold to the fishermen, along with

fresh vegetables and roasting ears. I tore

my way through the blackberry patches

until my hands and feet were scratched

raw and red from the thorns. I tramped the

hills seeking out the huckleberry bushes.

My grandfather paid me ten cents a bucket

for my berries.

Once Grandpa asked me what I did

with the money I earned. I told him I was

saving it to buy some hunting dogs. I asked

him if he would order them for me when I

had saved enough. He said he would. I

asked him not to say anything to my father.

He promised me he wouldn’t. I’m sure

Grandpa paid little attention to my plans.

That winter I trapped harder than ever

with the three little traps I owned.

Grandpa sold my hides to fur buyers who

came to his store all through the fur

season. Prices were cheap: fifteen cents

for a large opossum hide, twenty-five for

a good skunk hide.

Little by little, the nickels and dimes

added up. The old K. C. Baking Powder

can grew heavy. I would heft its weight in

the palm of my hand. With a straw, I’d

measure from the lip of the can to the

money. As the months went by, the straws

grew shorter and shorter.

The next summer I followed the same

routine.

“Would you like to buy some crawfish

or minnows? Maybe you’d like some fresh

vegetables or roasting ears.”

The fishermen were wonderful, as true

sportsmen are. They seemed to sense the

urgency in my voice and always bought

my wares. However, many was the time

I’d find my vegetables left in the

abandoned camp.

There never was a set price. Anything

they offered was good enough for me.

A year passed. I was twelve. I was

over the halfway mark. I had twenty-seven

dollars and forty-six cents. My spirits

soared. I worked harder.

Another year crawled slowly by, and

then the great day came. The long hard

grind was over. I had it—my fifty dollars!

I cried as I counted it over and over.

As I set the can back in the shadowy

eaves of the barn, it seemed to glow with

a radiant whiteness I had never seen

before. Perhaps it was all imagination. I

don’t know.

Lying back in the soft hay, I folded my

hands behind my head, closed my eyes,

and let my mind wander back over the two

long years. I thought of the fishermen, the

blackberry patches, and the huckleberry

hills. I thought of the prayer I had said

when I asked God to help me get two

hound pups. I knew He had surely helped,

for He had given me the heart, courage,

and determination.

Early the next morning, with the can

jammed deep in the pocket of my overalls,

I flew to the store. As I trotted along, I

whistled and sang. I felt as big as the

tallest mountain in the Ozarks.

Arriving at my destination, I saw two

wagons were tied up at the hitching rack. I

knew some farmers had come to the store,

so I waited until they left. As I walked in,

I saw my grandfather behind the counter.

Tugging and pulling, I worked the can out

of my pocket and dumped it out in front of

him and looked up.

Grandpa was dumbfounded. He tried to

say something, but it wouldn’t come out.

He looked at me, and he looked at the pile

of coins. Finally, in a voice much louder

than he ordinarily used, he asked, “Where

did you get all this?”

“I told you, Grandpa,” I said, “I was

saving my money so I could buy two

hound pups, and I did. You said you

would order them for me. I’ve got the

money and now I want you to order them.”

Grandpa stared at me over his glasses,

and then back at the money.

“How long have you been saving this?”

he asked.

“A long time, Grandpa,” I said.

“How long?” he asked.

I told him, “Two years.”

His mouth flew open and in a loud

voice he said, “Two years!”

I nodded my head.

The way my grandfather stared at me

made me uneasy. I was on needles and

pins. Taking his eyes from me, he glanced

back at the money. He saw the faded

yellow piece of paper sticking out from

the coins. He worked it out, asking as he

did, “What’s this?”

I told him it was the ad, telling where to

order my dogs.

He read it, turned it over, and glanced

at the other side.

I saw the astonishment leave his eyes

and the friendly-old-grandfather look

come back. I felt much better.

Dropping the paper back on the money,

he turned, picked up an old turkey-feather

duster, and started dusting where there

was no dust. He kept glancing at me out of

the corner of his eye as he walked slowly

down to the other end of the store, dusting

here and there.

He put the duster down, came from

behind the counter, and walked up to me.

Laying a friendly old work-calloused hand

on my head, he changed the conversation

altogether, saying, “Son, you need a

haircut.”

I told him I didn’t mind. I didn’t like my

hair short; flies and mosquitoes bothered

me.

He glanced down at my bare feet and

asked, “How come your feet are cut and

scratched like that?”

I told him it was pretty tough picking

blackberries barefoot.

He nodded his head.

It was too much for my grandfather. He

turned and walked away. I saw the glasses

come off, and the old red handkerchief

come out. I heard the good excuse of

blowing his nose. He stood for several

seconds with his back toward me. When

he turned around, I noticed his eyes were

moist.

In a quavering voice, he said, “Well,

Son, it’s your money. You worked for it,

and you worked hard. You got it honestly,

and you want some dogs. We’re going to

get those dogs. Be damned! Be damned!”

That was as near as I ever came to

hearing my grandfather curse, if you can

call it cursing.

He walked over and picked up the ad

again, asking, “Is this two years old, too?”

I nodded.

“Well,” he said, “the first thing we have

to do is write this outfit. There may not

even be a place like this in Kentucky any

more. After all, a lot of things can happen

in two years.”

Seeing that I was worried, he said,

“Now you go on home. I’ll write to these

kennels and I’ll let you know when I get

an answer. If we can’t get the dogs there,

we can get them someplace else. And I

don’t think, if I were you, I’d let my Pa

know anything about this right now. I

happen to know he wants to buy that red

mule from Old Man Potter.”

I told him I wouldn’t, and turned to

leave the store.

As I reached the door, my grandfather

said in a loud voice, “Say, it’s been a long

time since you’ve had any candy, hasn’t

it?”

I nodded my head.

He asked, “How long?”

I told him, “A long time.”

“Well,” he said, “we’ll have to do

something about that.”

Walking over behind the counter, he

reached out and got a sack. I noticed it

wasn’t one of the nickel sacks. It was one

of the quarter kind.

My eyes never left my grandfather’s

hand. Time after time, it dipped in and out

of the candy counter: peppermint sticks,

jawbreakers, horehound, and gumdrops.

The sack bulged. So did my eyes.

Handing the sack to me, he said, “Here.

First big coon you catch with those dogs,

you can pay me back.”

I told him I would.

On my way home, with a jawbreaker in

one side of my mouth and a piece of

horehound in the other, I skipped and

hopped, making half an effort to try to

whistle and sing, and couldn’t for the

candy. I had the finest grandpa in the

world and I was the happiest boy in the

world.

I wanted to share my happiness with my

sisters but decided not to say anything

about ordering the pups.

Arriving home, I dumped the sack of

candy out on the bed. Six little hands

helped themselves. I was well repaid by

the love and adoration I saw in the wide

blue eyes of my three little sisters.

IV

DAY AFTER DAY, I FLEW TO THE STORE, GRANDPA

WOULD shake his head. Then on a Monday,

as I entered the store, I sensed a change in

him. He was in high spirits, talking and

laughing with half a dozen farmers. Every

time I caught his eye, he would smile and

wink at me. I thought the farmers would

never leave, but finally the store was

empty.

Grandpa told me the letter had come.

The kennels were still there, and they had

dogs for sale. He said he had made the

mail buggy wait while he made out the

order. And, another thing, the dog market

had gone downhill. The price of dogs had

dropped five dollars. He handed me a ten-

dollar bill.

“Now, there’s still one stump in the

way,” he said. “The mail buggy can’t

carry things like dogs, so they’ll come as

far as the depot at Tahlequah, but you’ll

get the notice here because I ordered them

in your name.”

I thanked my grandfather with all my

heart and asked him how long I’d have to

wait for the notice.

He said, “I don’t know, but it shouldn’t

take more than a couple of weeks.”

I asked how I was going to get my dogs

out from Tahlequah.

“Well, there’s always someone going

in,” he said, “and you could ride in with

them.”

That evening the silence of our supper

was interrupted when I asked my father

this question: “Papa, how far is it to

Kentucky?”

I may as well have exploded a bomb.

For an instant there was complete silence,

and then my oldest sister giggled. The two

little ones stared at me.

With a half-hearted laugh, my father

said, “Well, now, I don’t know, but it’s a

pretty good ways. What do you want to

know for? Thinking of taking a trip to

Kentucky?”

“No,” I said. “I just wondered.”

My youngest sister giggled and asked,

“Can I go with you?”

I glared at her.

Mama broke into the conversation, “I

declare, what kind of a question is that?

How far is it to Kentucky? I don’t know

what’s gotten into that mind of yours

lately. You go around like you were lost,

and you’re losing weight. You’re as

skinny as a rail, and look at that hair. Just

last Sunday they had a haircutting over at

Tom Rolland’s place, but you couldn’t go.

You had to go prowling around the river

and the woods.”

I told Mama that I’d get a haircut next

time they had a cutting. And I just heard

some fellows talking about Kentucky up at

the store, and wondered how far away it

was. Much to my relief, the conversation

was ended.

The days dragged by. A week passed

and still no word about my dogs. Terrible

thoughts ran through my mind. Maybe my

dogs were lost; the train had a wreck;

someone stole my money; or perhaps the

mailman lost my order. Then, at the end of

the second week, the notice came.

My grandfather told me that he had

talked to Jim Hodges that day. He was

going into town in about a week and I

could ride in with him to pick up my dogs.

Again I thanked my grandfather.

I started for home. Walking along in

deep thought, I decided it was time to tell

my father the whole story. I fully intended

to tell him that evening. I tried several

times, but somehow I couldn’t. I wasn’t

scared of him, for he never whipped me.

He was always kind and gentle, but for

some reason, I don’t know why, I just

couldn’t tell him.

That night, snuggled deep in the soft

folds of a feather bed, I lay thinking. I had

waited so long for my dogs, and I so

desperately wanted to see them and hold

them. I didn’t want to wait a whole week.

In a flash I made up my mind. Very

quietly I got up and put on my clothes. I

sneaked into the kitchen and got one of

Mama’s precious flour sacks. In it I put

six eggs, some leftover corn bread, a little

salt, and a few matches. Next I went to the

smokehouse and cut off a piece of salt

pork. I stopped at the barn and picked up a

gunny sack. I put the flour sack inside the

gunny sack. This I rolled up and crammed

lengthwise in the bib of my overalls.

I was on my way. I was going after my

dogs.

Tahlequah was a small country town

with a population of about eight hundred.

By the road it was thirty-two miles away,

but as the crow flies, it was only twenty

miles. I went as the crow flies, straight

through the hills.

Although I had never been to town in

my life, I knew what direction to take.

Tahlequah and the railroad lay on the

other side of the river from our place. I

had the Frisco Railroad on my right, and

the Illinois River on my left. Not far from

where the railroad crossed the river lay

the town of Tahlequah. I knew if I bore to

the right I would find the railroad, and if I

bore to the left I had the river to guide me.

Some time that night, I crossed the river

on a riffle somewhere in the Dripping

Springs country. Coming out of the river

bottoms, I scatted up a long hogback ridge,

and broke out on top in the flats. In a mile-

eating trot, I moved along. I had the wind

of a deer, the muscles of a country boy, a

heart full of dog love, and a strong

determination. I wasn’t scared of the

darkness, or the mountains, for I was

raised in those mountains.

On and on, mile after mile, I moved

along. I saw faint gray streaks appear in

the east. I knew daylight was close. My

bare feet were getting sore from the flint

rocks and saw briers. I stopped beside a

mountain stream, soaked my feet in the

cool water, rested for a spell, and then

started on.

After leaving the mountain stream, my

pace was much slower. The muscles of

my legs were getting stiff. Feeling the

pangs of hunger gnawing at my stomach, I

decided I would stop and eat at the next

stream I found. Then I remembered I had

forgotten to include a can in which to boil

my eggs.

I stopped and built a small fire. Cutting

off a nice thick slab of salt pork, I roasted

it, and with a piece of cold corn bread

made a sandwich. Putting out my fire, I

was on my way again. I ate as I trotted

along. I felt much better.

I came into Tahlequah from the

northeast. At the outskirts of town, I hid

my flour sack and provisions, keeping the

gunny sack. I walked into town.

I was scared of Tahlequah and the

people. I had never seen such a big town

and so many people. There was store after

store, some of them two stories high. The

wagon yard had wagons on top of wagons;

teams, buggies, and horses.

Two young ladies about my age

stopped, stared at me, and then giggled.

My blood boiled, but I could understand.

After all, I had three sisters. They couldn’t

help it because they were womenfolks. I

went on.

I saw a big man coming up the street.

The bright shiny star on his vest looked as

big as a bucket. I saw the long, black gun

at his side and I froze in my tracks. I’d

heard of sheriffs and marshals, but had

never seen one. Stories repeated about

them in the mountains told how fast they

were with a gun, and how many men they

had killed.

The closer he came, the more frightened

I got. I knew it was the end for me. I could

just see him aiming his big, black gun and

shooting me between the eyes. It seemed

like a miracle that he passed by, hardly

glancing at me. Breathing a sigh, I walked

on, seeing the wonders of the world.

Passing a large store window, I stopped

and stared. There in the window was the

most wonderful sight I had ever seen;

everything under the sun; overalls, jackets,

bolts of beautiful cloth, new harnesses,

collars, bridles; and then my eyes did pop

open. There were several guns and one of

them had two barrels. I couldn’t believe it

—two barrels. I had seen several guns,

but never one with two barrels.

Then I saw something else. The sun was

just right, and the plate glass was a perfect

mirror. I saw the full reflection of myself

for the first time in my life.

I could see that I did look a little odd.

My straw-colored hair was long and

shaggy, and was bushed out like a corn

tassle that had been hit by a wind. I tried

to smooth it down with my hands. This

helped some but not much. What it needed

was a good combing and I had no comb.

My overalls were patched and faded

but they were clean. My shirt had pulled

out. I tucked it back in.

I took one look at my bare feet and

winced. They were as brown as dead

sycamore leaves. The spider-web pattern

of raw, red scratches looked odd in the

saddle-brown skin. I thought, “Well, I

won’t have to pick any more blackberries

and the scratches will soon go away.”

I pumped up one of my arms and thought

surely the muscle was going to pop right

through my thin blue shirt. I stuck out my

tongue. It was as red as pokeberry juice

and anything that color was supposed to

be healthy.

After making a few faces at myself, I

put my thumbs in my ears and was making

mule ears when two old women came by.

They stopped and stared at me. I stared

back. As they turned to go on their way, I

heard one of them say something to the

other. The words were hard to catch, but I

did hear one word: “Wild.” As I said

before, they couldn’t help it, they were

womenfolks.

As I turned to leave, my eyes again fell

on the overalls and the bolts of cloth. I

thought of my mother, father, and sisters.

Here was an opportunity to make amends

for leaving home without telling anyone.

I entered the store. I bought a pair of

overalls for Papa. After telling the

storekeeper how big my mother and

sisters were, I bought several yards of

cloth. I also bought a large sack of candy.

Glancing down at my bare feet, the

storekeeper said, “I have some good

shoes.”

I told him I didn’t need any shoes.

He asked if that would be all.

I nodded.

He added up the bill. I handed him my

ten dollars. He gave me my change.

After wrapping up the bundles, he

helped me put them in my sack. Lifting it

to my shoulder, I turned and left the store.

Out on the street, I picked out a

friendly-looking old man and asked him

where the depot was. He told me to go

down to the last street and turn right, go as

far as I could, and I couldn’t miss it. I

thanked him and started on my way.

Leaving the main part of town, I started

up a long street through the residential

section. I had never seen so many

beautiful houses, and they were all

different colors. The lawns were neat and

clean and looked like green carpets. I saw

a man pushing some kind of a mowing

machine. I stopped to watch the whirling

blades. He gawked at me. I hurried on.

I heard a lot of shouting and laughing

ahead of me. Not wanting to miss

anything, I walked a little faster. I saw

what was making the noise. More kids

than I had ever seen were playing around

a big red brick building. I thought some

rich man lived there and was giving a

party for his children. Walking up to the

edge of the playground, I stopped to

watch.

The boys and girls were about my age,

and were as thick as flies around a

sorghum mill. They were milling, running,

and jumping. Teeter-totters and swings

were loaded down with them. Everyone

was laughing and having a big time.

Over against the building, a large blue

pipe ran up on an angle from the ground. A

few feet from the top there was a bend in

it. The pipe seemed to go into the

building. Boys were crawling into its dark

mouth. I counted nine of them. One boy

stood about six feet from the opening with

a stick in his hand.

Staring goggle-eyed, trying to figure out

what they were doing, I got a surprise. Out

of the hollow pipe spurted a boy. He

sailed through the air and lit on his feet.

The boy with the stick marked the ground

where he landed. All nine of them came

shooting out, one behind the other. As

each boy landed, a new mark was

scratched.

They ganged around looking at the

lines. There was a lot of loud talking,

pointing, and arguing. Then all lines were

erased and a new scorekeeper was picked

out. The others crawled back into the

pipe.

I figured out how the game was played.

After climbing to the top of the slide, the

boys turned around and sat down. One at a

time, they came flying down and out, feet

first. The one that shot out the furthest was

the winner. I thought how wonderful it

would be if I could slide down just one

time.

One boy, spying me standing on the

corner, came over. Looking me up and

down, he asked, “Do you go to school

here?”

I said, “School?”

He said, “Sure. School. What did you

think it was?”

“Oh. No, I don’t go to school here.”

“Do you go to Jefferson?”

“No. I don’t go there either.”

“Don’t you go to school at all?”

“Sure I go to school.”

“Where?”

“At home.”

“You go to school at home?”

I nodded.

“What grade are you in?”

I said I wasn’t in any grade.

Puzzled, he said, “You go to school at

home, and don’t know what grade you’re

in. Who teaches you?”

“My mother.”

“What does she teach you?”

I

said,

“Reading,

writing,

and

arithmetic, and I bet I’m just as good at it

as you are.”

He asked, “Don’t you have any shoes?”

I said, “Sure, I have shoes.”

“Why aren’t you wearing them?”

“I don’t wear shoes until it gets cold.”

He laughed and asked where I lived.

I said, “Back in the hills.”

He said, “Oh, you’re a hillbilly.”

He ran back to the mob. I saw him

pointing at me and talking to several boys.

They started my way, yelling, “Hillbilly,

hillbilly.”

Just before they reached me, a bell

started ringing. Turning, they ran to the

front of the building, lined up in two long

lines, and marching like little tin soldiers

disappeared inside the school.

The playground was silent. I was all

alone, and felt lonely and sad.

I heard a noise on my right. I didn’t

have to turn around to recognize what it

was. Someone was using a hoe. I’d know

that sound if I heard it on a dark night. It

was a little old white-headed woman

working in a flower bed.

Looking again at the long, blue pipe, I

thought, “There’s no one around. Maybe I

could have one slide anyway.”

I eased over and looked up into the dark

hollow. It looked scary, but I thought of all

the other boys I had seen crawl into it. I

could see the last mark on the ground, and

thought, “I bet I can beat that.”

Laying my sack down, I started

climbing up. The farther I went, the darker

and more scary it got. Just as I reached the

top, my feet slipped. Down I sailed. All

the way down I tried to grab on to

something, but there was nothing to grab.

I’m sure some great champions had slid

out of that pipe, and no doubt more than

one world record had been broken, but if

someone had been there when I came out,

I know the record I set would stand today

in all its glory.

I came out just like I went in, feet first

and belly down. My legs were spread out

like a bean-shooter stalk. Arms flailing the

air, I zoomed out and up. I seemed to hang

suspended in air at the peak of my climb. I

could see the hard-packed ground far

below.

As I started down, I shut my eyes tight

and gritted my teeth. This didn’t seem to

help. With a splattering sound, I landed. I

felt the air whoosh out between my teeth. I

tried to scream, but had no wind left to

make a sound.

After bouncing a couple of times, I

finally settled down to earth. I lay spread-

eagled for a few seconds, and then slowly

got to my knees.

Hearing loud laughter, I looked around.

It was the little old lady with the hoe in

her hand. She hollered and asked how I

liked it. Without answering, I grabbed up

my gunny sack and left. Far up the street, I

looked back. The little old lady was

sitting down, rocking with laughter.

I couldn’t understand these town

people. If they weren’t staring at a fellow,

they were laughing at him.

V

ON ARRIVING AT THE DEPOT, MY NERVE FAILED ME. I

WAS afraid to go in. I didn’t know what I

was scared of, but I was scared.

Before going around to the front, I

peeked in a window. The Stationmaster

was in his office looking at some papers.

He was wearing a funny little cap that had

no top in it. He looked friendly enough but

I still couldn’t muster up enough courage

to go in.

I cocked my ear to see if I could hear

puppies crying, but could hear nothing. A

bird started chirping. It was a yellow

canary in a cage. The stationmaster

walked over and gave it some water. I

thought, “Anyone that is kind to birds

surely wouldn’t be mean to a boy.”

With my courage built up I walked

around to the front and eased myself past

the office. He glanced at me and turned

back to the papers. I walked clear around

the depot and again walked slowly past

the office. Glancing from the corner of my

eye, I saw the Stationmaster looking at me

and smiling. He opened the door and came

out on the platform. I stopped and leaned

against the building.

Yawning and stretching his arms, he

said, “It sure is hot today. It doesn’t look

like it’s ever going to rain.”

I looked up at the sky and said, “Yes,

sir. It is hot and we sure could do with a

good rain. We need one bad up where I

come from.”

He asked me where I lived.

I told him, “Up the river a ways.”

“You know,” he said, “I have some

puppies in there for a boy that lives up on

the river. His name is Billy Colman. I

know his dad, but never have seen the

boy. I figured he would be in after them

today.”

On hearing this remark, my heart

jumped clear up in my throat. I thought

surely it was going to hop right out on the

depot platform. I looked up and tried to

tell him who I was, but something went

wrong. When the words finally came out

they sounded like the squeaky old pulley

on our well when Mama drew up a bucket

of water.

I could see a twinkle in the

stationmaster’s eyes. He came over and

laid his hand on my shoulder. In a friendly

voice he said, “So you’re Billy Colman.

How is your dad?”

I told him Papa was fine and handed

him the slip my grandpa had given me.

“They sure are fine-looking pups,” he

said. “You’ll have to go around to the

freight door.”

I’m sure my feet never touched the

ground as I flew around the building. He

unlocked the door, and I stepped in,

looking for my dogs. I couldn’t see

anything but boxes, barrels, old trunks,

and some rolls of barbed wire.

The kindly Stationmaster walked over

to one of the boxes.

“Do you want box and all?” he asked.

I told him I didn’t want the box. All I

wanted was the dogs.

“How are you going to carry them?” he

asked. “I think they’re a little too young to

follow.”

I held out my gunny sack.

He looked at me and looked at the sack.

Chuckling, he said, “Well, I guess dogs

can be carried that way same as anything

else, but we’ll have to cut a couple of

holes to stick their heads through so that

they won’t smother.”

Getting a claw hammer, he started

tearing off the top of the box. As nails

gave way and boards splintered, I heard

several puppy whimpers. I didn’t walk

over. I just stood and waited.

After what seemed like hours, the box

was open. He reached in, lifted the pups

out, and set them down on the floor.

“Well, there they are,” he said. “What

do you think of them?”

I didn’t answer. I couldn’t. All I could

do was stare at them.

They seemed to be blinded by the light

and kept blinking their eyes. One sat down

on his little rear and started crying. The

other one was waddling around and

whimpering.

I wanted so much to step over and pick

them up. Several times I tried to move my

feet, but they seemed to be nailed to the

floor. I knew the pups were mine, all

mine, yet I couldn’t move. My heart

started acting like a drunk grasshopper. I

tried to swallow and couldn’t. My

Adam’s apple wouldn’t work.

One pup started my way. I held my

breath. On he came until I felt a scratchy

little foot on mine. The other pup

followed. A warm puppy tongue caressed

my sore foot.

I heard the Stationmaster say, “They

already know you.”

I knelt down and gathered them in my

arms. I buried my face between their

wiggling

bodies

and

cried.

The

Stationmaster, sensing something more

than just two dogs and a boy, waited in

silence.

Rising with the two pups held close to

my chest, I asked if I owed anything.

He said, “There is a small feed bill but

I’ll take care of it. It’s not much anyway.”

Taking his knife he cut two slits in the

sack. He put the pups in it and worked

their heads through the holes. As he

handed the sack to me, he said, “Well,

there you are. Good-bye and good

hunting!”

Walking down the street toward town, I

thought, “Now, maybe the people won’t

stare at me when they see what I’ve got.

After all, not every boy owns two good

hounds.”

Turning the corner onto the main street,

I threw out my chest.

I hadn’t gone far before I realized that

the reception I got wasn’t what I thought it

would be. People began to stop and stare,

some

even

snickered.

I

couldn’t

understand why they were staring. Surely

it couldn’t be at the two beautiful hound

pups sticking out of the gunny sack.

Thinking that maybe I had a hole in the

seat of my britches, I looked over to my

reflection in a plateglass window. I

craned my neck for a better view of my

rear. I could see a patch there all right,

and a few threadbare spots, but no

whiteness was showing through. I figured

that the people were just jealous because

they didn’t have two good hounds.

I saw a drunk coming. He was

staggering all over the street. Just as he

was passing me I heard him stop. As I

looked back I saw he was staring wide-

eyed at my sack. Closing his eyes, he

rubbed them with his hands. Opening them

again he stared. Shaking his head, he

staggered on down the street.

All around people began to roar with

laughter. Someone shouted, “What’s the

matter, John? You seeing things today?”

I hurried on, wanting to get away from

the stares and the snickers.

It wouldn’t have happened again in a

hundred years, but there they came. The

same two old women I had met before.

We stopped and had another glaring fight.

One said, “I declare.”

The other one snorted, “Well, I never.”

My face burned. I couldn’t take any

more. After all, a man can stand so much

and no more. In a loud voice, I said, “You

may have these people fooled with those

expensive-looking feathers in your hats,

but I know what they are. They’re goose

feathers painted with iodine.”

One started to say something, but her

words were drowned out by the roaring

laughter from all around. Gathering up

their long skirts, they swished on down the

street.

All around me people began to shout

questions and laugh. One wanted to know

if I had the mother in the sack.

Storekeepers stepped out and gawked. I

could see the end of the street, but it

looked as if it were a hundred miles away.

My face was as red as a fox’s tail. I

ducked my head, tightened my grip on the

sack, and walked on.

I don’t know where they came from, but

like chickens coming home to roost, they

flocked around me. Most of them were

about my age. Some were a little bigger,

some smaller. They ganged around me,

screaming and yelling. They started

clapping their hands and chanting, “The

dog boy has come to town. The dog boy

has come to town.”

My heart burst. Tears came rolling. The

day I had waited for so long had turned

black and ugly.

The leader of the gang was about my

size. He had a dirty freckled face and his

two front teeth were missing. I suppose he

had lost them in a back alley fight. His

shock of yellow sunburnt hair bobbed up

and down as he skipped and jumped to the

rhythm of the “dog boy” song. He wore a

pair of cowboy boots. They were two

sizes too big for him, no doubt handed

down by an older brother.

He stomped on my right foot. I looked

down and saw a drop of blood ooze out

from under the broken nail. It hurt like the

dickens but I gritted my teeth and walked

on.

Freckle-face pulled the ear of my little

girl pup. I heard her painful cry. That was

too much. I hadn’t worked two long hard

years for my pups to have some freckle-

face punk pull their ears.

Swinging the sack from my shoulder, I

walked over and set it down in a

doorway. As I turned around to face the

mob, I doubled up my fist, and took a Jack

Dempsey stance.

Freckle-face said, “So you want to

fight.” He came in swinging.

I reached way back in Arkansas

somewhere. By the time my fist had

traveled all the way down to the Cherokee

Strip, there was a lot of power behind it.

Smack on the end of Freck’s nose it

exploded. With a loud grunt he sat down

in the dusty street. Grabbing his nose in

both hands, he started rocking and

moaning. I saw the blood squeeze out

between his fingers.

Another one sailed in. He didn’t want

to fight. He wanted to wrestle. He stuck a

finger in my mouth. I ground down.

Shaking his hand and yelling like the hoot

owls were after him, he ran across the

street.

Another one bored in. I aimed for his

eye, but my aim was a little low. It caught

him in the Adam’s apple. A sick look

came over his face. Bending over,

croaking like a bullfrog that had been

caught by a water moccasin, he started

going around in a circle.

But there were too many of them. By

sheer weight and numbers, they pulled me

down. I managed to twist over on my

stomach and buried my face in my arms. I

could feel them beating and kicking my

body.

All at once the beating stopped. I heard

loud cries from the gang. Turning over on

my back, I was just in time to see the big

marshal plant a number-twelve boot in the

seat of the last kid. I just knew I was next.

I wondered if he’d kick me while I was

down.

I lay where I was. He started toward

me. I closed my eyes. I felt a hand as big

as an anvil clamp on my shoulder. I

thought, “He’s going to stand me up, and

then knock me down.”

He raised me to a sitting position. His

deep friendly voice said, “Are you all

right, son?”

I opened my eyes. There was a smile on

his wide rugged face. In a choking voice, I

said, “Yes, sir. I’m all right.”

He helped me to my feet. His big hands

started brushing the dust from my clothes.

“Those kids are pretty tough, son,” he

said, “but they’re really not bad. They’ll

grow up some day.”

“Marshal,” I said, “I wouldn’t have

fought them, but they pulled my pup’s

ears.”

He looked over to my sack. One pup

had worked its way almost out through the

hole. The other one’s head and two little

paws were sticking out. Both of them

were whimpering.

A smile spread all over the big

marshal’s face. “So that’s what started the

fight,” he said.

Walking over, he knelt down and

started petting the pups. “They’re fine-

looking dogs,” he said. “Where did you

get them?”

I told him I had ordered them from

Kentucky.

“What did they cost you?” he asked.

“Forty dollars,” I said.

He asked if my father had bought them

for me.

“No,” I said. “I bought them myself.”

He asked me where I got the money.

“I worked and saved it,” I said.

“It takes a long time to save forty

dollars,” he said.

“Yes,” I said. “It took me two years.”

“Two years!” he exclaimed.

I saw an outraged look come over the

marshal’s face. Reaching up, he pushed

his hat back. He glanced up and down the

street. I heard him mutter, “There’s not a

one in that bunch with that kind of grit.”

Picking up my sack, I said, “Thanks for

helping me out. I guess I’d better be

heading for home.”

He asked where I lived.

I said, “Up the river a way.”

“Well, you’ve got time for a bottle of

pop before you go, haven’t you?”

I started to say “No,” but looking at his

big friendly smile, I smiled back and said,

“I guess I have.”

Walking into a general store, the

marshal went over to a large red box and

pulled back the lid. He asked what kind I

wanted. I’d never had a bottle of pop in

my life, and didn’t know what to say.

Seeing my hesitation, he said, “This

strawberry looks pretty good.”

I said that would be fine.

The cool pop felt wonderful to my hot

dry throat. My dark little world had

brightened up again. I had my pups, and

had found a wonderful friend. I knew that

the stories I had heard about marshals

weren’t true. Never again would I be

scared when I saw one.

Back out on the street, I shook hands

with the marshal, saying as I did, “If

you’re ever up in my part of the country

come over and see me. You can find our

place by asking at my grandfather’s store.”

“Store?” he asked. “Why, the only store

upriver is about thirty miles from here.”

“Yes,” I said, “that’s my grandpa’s

place.”

He asked if I was afoot.

“Yes,” I said.

“You won’t make it tonight,” he said.

“Will you?”

“No,” I said. “I intend to camp out

somewhere.”

I saw he was bothered.

“I’ll be all right,” I said. “I’m not

scared of the mountains.”

He looked at me and at my pups. Taking

off his hat, he scratched his head.

Chuckling deep down in his barrel-like

chest, he said, “Yes, I guess you will be

all right. Well, good-bye and good luck! If

you’re ever in town again look me up.”

From far down the street, I looked back.

The marshal was still standing where I

had left him. He waved his hand. I waved

back.

On the outskirts of town, I stopped and

picked up a can and my provisions.

I hadn’t gone far before I realized that I

had undertaken a tough job. The sack

became heavier and heavier.

For a while my pups cried and

whimpered. They had long since pulled

their heads back in the sack. I would peek

in at them every once in a while. They

were doing all right. Curled up into two

little round balls on my bundles, they were

fast asleep.

Deep in the heart of the Sparrow Hawk

Mountains, night overtook me. There, in a

cave with a stream close by, I put up for

the night.

Taking my pups and bundles from the

gunny sack, I used it to gather leaves to

make us a bed. My pups followed me on

every trip, whimpering and crying,

tumbling and falling over sticks and rocks.

After the bed was made I built a fire. In

a can of water from the mountain stream, I

boiled three eggs. Next, I boiled half of

the remaining salt pork. Cutting the meat

up in small pieces, I fed it to my pups.

Each of us had a piece of candy for

dessert. My pups enjoyed the candy. With

their needle-sharp teeth, they gnawed and

worried with it until it was melted away.

While they were busy playing, I

dragged up several large timbers and built

a fire which would last for hours. In a

short time the cave grew warm and

comfortable from the heat. The leaves

were soft, and felt good to my tired body

and sore feet. As I lay stretched out, my

pups crawled all over me. I played with

them. They would waddle up to the front

of the cave, look at the fire, and come

scampering back to roll and play in the

soft leaves.

I noticed the boy dog was much larger

than the girl dog. He was a deeper red in

color. His chest was broad and solid. His

puppy muscles knotted and rippled under

the velvety skin. He was different in every

way. He would go closer to the fire. I saw

right away he was bold and aggressive.

Once he went around the fire and

ventured out into the darkness. I waited to

see if he would come back. He came

wobbling to the mouth of the cave, but

hesitated there. He made several attempts

to come back, but the flames were leaping

higher by the minute. The space between

the fire and the wall of the cave was much

hotter than when he had ventured out.

Whimpering and crying, he kept trying to

get around the fire. I said not a word; just

watched.

Puppy though he was, he did something

which brought a smile to my face. Getting

as close as he could to the side of the

cave, he turned his rear to the fire.

Hopping sideways, yipping at every jump,

he made it through the heat and sailed into

the pile of leaves. He had had enough.

Curling up in a ball close to me, he went

to sleep.

The girl pup was small and timid. Her

legs and body were short. Her head was

small and delicate. She must have been a

runt in the litter. I didn’t have to look

twice to see that what she lacked in

power, she made up in brains. She was a

much smarter dog than the boy dog, more

sure of herself, more cautious. I knew

when the trail became tough, she would be

the one to unravel it.

I knew I had a wonderful combination.

In my dogs, I had not only the power, but

the brains along with it.

I was a tired boy. My legs were stiff,

and my feet sore and throbbing. My

shoulders were red and raw from the

weight of the sack. I covered my pups up

in the leaves and moved my body as close

to them as I could. I knew as night wore

on, and the fire died down, the chill would

come. Tired but happy, I fell asleep.

Along in the silent hours of night, I was

awakened. I opened my eyes, but didn’t

move. I lay and listened, trying to figure

out what it was that had aroused me. At

first I thought one of my pups had

awakened me by moving and whimpering.

I discarded this thought for I could see that

they were both fast asleep. I decided it

was my imagination working.

My fire had burned down, leaving only

a glowing red body of coals. The cave

was dark and silent. Chill from the night

had crept in. I was on the point of getting

up to rebuild my fire, when I heard what

had awakened me. At first I thought it was

a woman screaming. I listened. My heart

began to pound. I could feel the strain all

over my body as nerves grew tighter and

tighter.

It came again, closer this time. The high

pitch of the scream shattered the silence of

the quiet night. The sound seemed to be all

around us. It screamed its way into the

cave and rang like a blacksmith’s anvil

against the rock walls. The blood froze in

my veins. I was terrified. Although I had

never heard one, I knew what it was. It

was the scream of a mountain lion.

The big cat screamed again. Leaves

boiled and stirred where my pups were. In

the reflection of the glowing coals, I could

see that one was sitting up. It was the boy

dog. A leaf had become entangled in the

fuzzy hair of a floppy ear. The ear flicked.

The leaf dropped.

Again the hellish scream rang out over

the mountains. Leaves flew as my pup left

the bed. I jumped up and tried to call him

back.

Reaching the mouth of the cave, he

stopped. Raising his small red head high

in the air, he bawled his challenge to the

devil cat. The bawl must have scared him

as much as it had startled me. He came

tearing back. The tiny hairs on his back

were standing on end.

My father had told me lions were

scared of fire. I started throwing on more

wood. I was glad I’d dragged up a good

supply while making camp.

Hearing a noise from the bed, I looked

back.

The

girl

pup,

hearing

the

commotion, had gotten up and joined the

boy dog. They were sitting side by side

with their bodies stiff and rigid. Their

beady little eyes bored into the darkness

beyond the cave. The moist tips of their

little black noses wiggled and twisted as

if trying to catch a scent.

What I saw in my pups gave me

courage. My knees quit shaking and my

heart stopped pounding.

I figured the lion had scented my pups.

The more I thought about anything harming

them, the madder I got. I was ready to die

for my dogs.

Every time the big cat screamed, the

boy dog would run to the mouth of the

cave and bawl back at him. I started

whooping and throwing rocks down the

mountainside, hoping to scare the lion

away. Through the long hours of the night,

I kept this up.

The lion prowled around us, screaming

and growling; first on the right, and then

on the left, and above and below. In the

wee hours of morning, he gave up and left

to stalk other parts of the mountains. I’m

sure he thought he didn’t stand a chance

against two vicious hounds and a big

hunter.

VI

AFTER THE TERRIFYING NIGHT, THE BRIGHT MORNING

SUN was a welcome sight. I fixed breakfast

and soon we were on our way. I tried to

get the pups to follow me, so as to lighten

my load. They would for a way, and then,

sitting down on their rears, they would cry

and whimper. Back in the sack they would

go, with their heads sticking out of the

holes and their long ears flopping. I

moved on.

About midday I entered country I knew.

I wasn’t far from home. I dropped down

out of the mountains into the bottoms far

above the place I had crossed the river on

my way to town.

Staying on the left of the river, I

followed

its

course

past

several

campgrounds, but didn’t stop until I came

to the one where I had found the magazine.

Here I took the pups out of the sack and

sat down in the warm sand.

As the afternoon wore on, I sat there

deep in thought. I was trying to think what

I was going to tell my mother and father. I

could think of nothing. Finally I decided I

would just tell them the truth, and with the

help of the new overalls, cloth, and candy,

I would weather the storm.

My pups were having a big time

playing. With their little front paws locked

around each other, they were growling,

rolling, and chewing on one another. They

looked so cute, I laughed out loud.

While I was watching their romping, the

thought came, “I haven’t named them.”

I went over the list of names. For him, I

tried “Red,” “Bugle,” “Lead,” name after

name as before. For her, I tried “Susie,”

“Mabel,” “Queen,” all kinds of girl

names. None seemed to fit.

Still mumbling names over and over, I

glanced up. There, carved in the white

bark of a sycamore tree, was a large heart.

In the center of the heart were two names,

“Dan” and “Ann.” The name Dan was a

little larger than Ann. It was wide and

bold. The scar stood out more. The name

Ann was small, neat, and even. I stared

unbelieving—for there were my names.

They were perfect.

I walked over and picked up my pups.

Looking at him, I said, “Your name is

Dan. I’ll call you Old Dan.” Looking at

her, I said, “Your name, little girl, is Ann.

I’ll call you Little Ann.”

It was then I realized it was all too

perfect. Here in this fishermen’s camp, I

had found the magazine and the ad. I

looked over at the old sycamore log.

There I had asked God to help me get two

hound pups. There were the pups, rolling

and playing in the warm sand. I thought of

the old K. C. Baking Powder can, and the

fishermen. How freely they had given their

nickels and dimes.

I looked up again to the names carved

in the tree. Yes, it was all there like a

large puzzle. Piece by piece, each fit

perfectly until the puzzle was complete. It

could not have happened without the help

of an unseen power.

I stayed at the campground until dark. I

knew I had to go home but I put it off as

long as I could. The crying of the pups,

telling me they were hungry, made up my

mind for me. I knew the time had come for

me to face my mother and father.

I sacked up my dogs and waded the

river. As I came out of the bottoms, I

could see the lamplight glow from the

windows of our home. One of the small

yellow squares darkened for an instant.

Someone had walked across the floor. I

wondered who it was. I heard Daisy, our

milk cow, moo. I was thinking so hard of

what I would say, it startled me for a

second.

Reaching the gate to our house, I

stopped. I had never thought our home

very pretty, but that night it looked

different. It looked clean and neat and

peaceful, nestled there in the foothills of

the Ozarks. Yes, on that night I was proud

of our home.

My bare feet made no noise as I

crossed the porch. With my free hand, I

reached and pulled the leather that worked

the latch. Slowly the door swung inward.

I couldn’t see my father or sisters. They

were too far to the right of me, but my

mother was directly in front of the door,

sitting in her old cane-bottom rocker,

knitting.

She looked up. I saw all the worry and

grief leave her eyes. Her head bowed

down. The knitting in her hands came up

to cover her face. I stepped inside the

room. I wanted to run to her and comfort

her and tell her how sorry I was for all the

worry and grief I had caused her.

The booming voice of my father shook

me from my trance.

He said, “Well, what have you got

there?”

Laughing, he got up from his chair and

came over to me. He reached and took the

sack from my shoulder.

“When we started looking for you,” he

said, “I went to the store and your grandpa

told me all about it. It wasn’t too hard to

figure out what you had done, but you

should have told us.”

I ran to my mother and, dropping to my

knees, I buried my face in her lap.

As Mama patted my head, I heard her

say in a quavering voice, “Oh, why didn’t

you tell us? Why?”

I couldn’t answer.

Between sobs, I heard the squeals of

delight from my sisters as they fondled my

pups.

I heard my father say, “What’s this

other stuff you’ve got?”

Without raising my head from my

mother’s lap, in a choking voice I said,

“One is for you, one is for Mama, and the

other is for the girls.”

I heard the snapping of string and the

rattle of paper. The oh’s and ah’s from my

sisters were wonderful to hear.

Papa came over to Mama. Laying the

cloth on the arm of her chair, he said,

“Well, you’ve been wanting a new dress.

Here is enough cloth to make half a dozen

dresses.”

Realizing that everything was forgiven,

I stood up and dried my eyes. Papa was

pleased with his new overalls. My sisters

forgot the pups for the candy. The light

that was shining from my mother’s eyes,

as she fingered the cheap cotton cloth, was

something I will never forget.

Mama warmed some milk for the pups.

They drank until their little tummies were

tight and round.

As I ate, Papa sat down at the table and

started talking man-talk to me. He asked,

“How are things in town?”

I told him it was boiling with people.

The wagon yard was full of wagons and

teams.

He asked if I had seen anyone I knew.

I told him I hadn’t, but the Stationmaster

had asked about him.

He asked me where I had spent the

night.

I told him about the cave in the Sparrow

Hawk Mountains.

He said that must have been the one

called “Robber’s Cave.”

My youngest sister piped up, “Did you

stay all night with some robbers?”

My oldest sister said, “Silly, that was a

long time ago. There aren’t any robbers

there now.”

The other one put her nickel’s worth in,

“Weren’t you scared?”

“No,” I said, “I wasn’t scared of

staying in the cave, but I heard a mountain

lion scream and it scared me half to

death.”

“Aw, they won’t bother you,” Papa

said. “You had a fire, didn’t you?”

I said, “Yes.”

He said, “They’ll never bother you

unless they are wounded or cornered, but

if they are, you had better look out.”

Papa asked me how I liked town.

I said I didn’t like it at all, and

wouldn’t live there even if they gave it to

me.

With a querying look on his face, he

said, “I’m afraid I don’t understand. I

thought you always wanted to go to town.”

“I did,” I said, “but I don’t any more. I

don’t like the people there and couldn’t

understand them.”

“What was wrong with them?” he

asked.

I told him how they had stared at me,

and had even laughed and made fun of me.

He said, “Aw, I don’t think they were

making fun of you, were they?”

“Yes, they were,” I said, “and to beat it

all, the boys jumped on me and knocked

me down in the dirt. If it hadn’t been for

the marshal, I would have taken a

beating.”

Papa said, “So you met the marshal.

What did you think of him?”

I told him he was a nice man. He had

bought me a bottle of soda pop.

At the mention of soda pop, the blue

eyes of my sisters opened wide. They

started firing questions at me, wanting to

know what color it was, and what it tasted

like. I told them it was strawberry and it

bubbled and tickled when I drank it, and it

made me burp.

The eager questions of my three little

sisters had had an effect on my father and

mother.

Papa said, “Billy, I don’t want you to

feel badly about the people in town. I

don’t think they were poking fun at you,

anyway not like you think they were.”

“Maybe they weren’t,” I said, “but I

still don’t want to ever live in town. It’s

too crowded and you couldn’t get a breath

of fresh air.”

In a sober voice my father said, “Some

day you may have to live in town. Your

mother and I don’t intend to live in these

hills all our lives. It’s no place to raise a

family. A man’s children should have an

education. They should get out and see the

world and meet people.”

“I don’t see why we have to move to

town to get an education,” I said. “Hasn’t

Mama taught us how to read and write?”

“There’s more to an education than just

reading and writing,” Papa said. “Much

more.”

I asked him when he thought we’d be

moving to town.

“Well, it’ll be some time yet,” he said.

“We don’t have the money now, but I’m

hoping some day we will.”

From the stove where she was heating

salt water for my feet, Mama said in a low

voice, “I’ll pray every day and night for

that day to come. I don’t want you children

to grow up without an education, not even

knowing what a bottle of soda pop is, or

ever seeing the inside of a schoolhouse. I

don’t think I could stand that. I’ll just keep

praying and some day the good Lord may

answer my prayer.”

I told my mother I had seen the

schoolhouse in town. Again I had to

answer a thousand questions for my

sisters. I told them it was made of red

brick and was bigger than Grandpa’s

store, a lot bigger. There must have been

at least a thousand kids going to school

there.

I told all about the teeter-totters, the

swings made out of log chains, the funny-

looking pipe that ran up the side of the

building, and how I had climbed up in it

and slid out like the other kids. I didn’t

tell them how I came out.

“I think that was a fire escape,” Papa

said.

“Fire escape!” I said. “It looked like a

slide to me.”

“Did you notice where it made that

bend up at the top?” he asked.

I nodded my head.

“Well, inside the school there’s a

door,” he said. “If the school gets on fire,

they open the door. The children jump in

the pipe and slide out to safety.”

“Boy, that’s a keen way of getting out of

a fire,” I said.

“Well, it’s getting late,” Papa said.

“We’ll talk about this some other time.

We’d better get to bed as we have a lot of

work to do tomorrow.”

My pups were put in the corncrib for

the night. I covered them with shucks and

kissed them good night.

The next day was a busy one for me.

With the hampering help of my sisters I

made the little doghouse.

Papa cut the ends off his check lines

and gave them to me for collars. With

painstaking care, deep in the tough leather

I scratched the name “Old Dan” on one

and “Little Ann” on the other. With a nail

and a rock two holes were punched in

each end of the straps. I put them around

their small necks and laced the ends

together with bailing wire.

That evening I had a talk with my

mother. I told her about praying for the

two pups, about the magazine and the

plans I had made. I told her how hard I

had tried to find names for them and how

strange it was finding them carved in the

bark of a sycamore tree.

With a smile on her face, she asked,

“Do you believe God heard your prayer

and helped you?”

“Yes, Mama,” I said. “I know He did

and I’ll always be thankful.”

VII

IT SEEMS THAT THE WORRIES AND WANTS OF A

YOUNG BOY never cease. Now that I had my

pups another obstacle had cropped up.

This one looked absolutely impossible. I

had to have a coonskin so I could train

them.

With my three little traps and a

bulldogged determination, I set out to trap

Mister Ringtail. For three solid weeks I

practically lived on the river. I tried every

trick I knew. It was no use. I just couldn’t

catch the wiley old coons.

In desperation I went to my grandfather.

He smiled as he listened to my tale of

woe. “Well, we’ll have to do something

about that,” he said. “To train those dogs

right, you’ll need that coon hide, that’s for

sure. Now you watch the store while I go

over to my tool shed. I’ll be right back.”

After what seemed like an eternity I

saw him coming. He was carrying a brace

and bit, that was all.

With a mischievous little smile on his

face, he said, “You wouldn’t think a

fellow could catch a coon with this brace

and bit, would you?”

I thought he was kidding me and it made

me feel bad. “Why, Grandpa,” I said, “you

couldn’t catch a coon in a jillion years

with that thing. You just don’t have any

idea how smart they are.”

“Yes, you can,” he said. “You bet your

boots you can. Why, when I was a boy I

caught coons on top of coons with one of

these things.”

I saw Grandpa was serious and I got

interested.

He laid the brace down on the counter,

picked up a small paper sack, and filled it

about half-full of horseshoe nails.

“Now you do everything exactly as I

tell you,” he said, “and you’ll catch that

coon.”

“Yes, sir, Grandpa,” I said, “I will. I’ll

do anything to catch one of them.”

“Now the first thing you’ll need is some

bright objects,” he said. “The best thing is

bright shiny tin. Cut out some little round

pieces, a little smaller than this bit. Do

you understand?”

I nodded my head.

“Now,” he said, “you go down along

the river where there are a lot of coon

tracks. Find a good solid log close by and

bore a hole down about six inches. Drop

one of the bright pieces of tin down in the

hole, and be sure it’s laying right on the

bottom.”

I was all ears. I didn’t want to miss one

word my grandfather said. Now and then I

would glance at him to see if he was

kidding me.

In a serious voice, he went on talking.

“Now pay close attention,” he said,

“because this is the main part of the trap.”

With eyes as big as a hoot owl’s, I

looked and listened.

He took four of the horseshoe nails

from the sack. With the thumb and

forefinger of his left hand he made a small

“o” about the size of the bit, which was an

inch and half in diameter.

“Now, we’ll say this is the hole you

bored in the log,” he said. “About an inch

apart, drive these nails in on a slant

opposite each other.”

Holding one of the nails in his right

hand, he showed me the right angle.

“The ends of the nails will enter the

hole about halfway between the top and

the piece of tin,” he continued. “Leave an

opening between the sharp points big

enough for a coon to get his paw through.”

He asked me if I understood.

Again I nodded my head and moved a

little closer to him.

“How is that going to catch a coon,

Grandpa?” I asked.

“It’ll catch him all right,” he said, “and

it won’t fail. You see a coon is a curious

little animal. Anything that is bright and

shiny attracts him. He will reach in and

pick it up. When his paw closes on the

bright object it balls up, and when he

starts to pull it from the hole, the sharp

ends of the nails will gouge into his paw

and he’s caught.”

He looked over at me.

“Well, what do you think of it?” he

asked.

I closed my eyes and in my mind I could

see the funnel-like entrance of the hole,

and the sharp slanting points of the nails. I

could see the coon reaching in for the

shiny piece of metal. Naturally his paw

would be much larger when closed than it

was when he reached in. It would be

impossible for it to pass the sharp nails.

It was all looking pretty good to me and

I was on the point of saying so, when it hit

me. Why, all the coon had to do was open

his paw, drop the object, and he was free.

It all blew up then and there. I just knew

my grandfather was playing a joke on me.

I stepped back and almost cried as I

said, “Grandpa, you’re kidding me. That

kind of a trap couldn’t catch a coon. Why

all he’d have to do is open his paw, drop

the piece of tin, and he could pull it from

the hole.”

Grandpa started roaring with laughter.

This did make me feel bad. With tears in

my eyes, I started for the door.

“Wait a minute,” Grandpa said. “I’m

not kidding you. Oh, I know I like to have

my jokes, same as any man, but I meant

every word I said.”

I turned around and looked at him. He

had stopped laughing and there was a hurt

expression on his face.

“I wasn’t laughing at you,” he said. “I

was laughing more at myself than you. I

just wanted to see if you were smart

enough to see that there was a way the

coon could free himself.”

“A fellow wouldn’t have to be very

smart to see that,” I said.

Grandpa started talking seriously again.

“You know,” he said,” a coon has more

than one peculiarity about him. When I

was a boy I had a pet coon. By watching

him, I saw and learned a lot of things.

“He had a den in an old hollow tree in

our front yard. I don’t know the number of

times I’d have to climb that tree and get

my mother’s scissors, buttons, needles,

and thimble from his den. Why, he’d even

carry out our knives, forks, and spoons.

Anything that was bright and shiny, he

took to his den.”

Grandpa stopped talking for a few

minutes. I could see a faraway look in his

eyes. Once again he was living in those

long-ago days. I waited in silence for him

to go on with his story.

“One of the most peculiar things about

that coon,” he said, “was his front feet.

Once he wrapped those little paws around

something he would never let go.

“My mother had an old churn. It was

one of those kind with a small hole in the

lid for the dasher. When she would get

through churning, she would take the

dasher out to wash it. That crazy coon

would climb up on top of the churn, poke

his little front paw through the hole, and

get a fistful of butter. The hole was small,

and when he closed his paw, he couldn’t

get it back out. All he had to do was open

it, drop the butter, and he would be free,

but do you think he would? No, sir. He

would carry that churn lid all over the

house, squalling and growling. Why, it

took everyone in the house to free him. I’d

have to wrap him up in a gunny sack or an

old coat and pry his claws loose from the

butter. Seeing this time after time is what

gave me the idea for this trap. Once he

reaches in and gets hold of that tin, he’s

caught, because he will never open his

paw.”

With my confidence restored, it all

sounded pretty good to me and I was

anxious to try out this wonderful plan. I

thanked him and, taking the brace and

nails, I left the store.

By the time I reached home it was too

late in the day to start making my traps.

That night I talked the idea over with

Papa.

“I’ve heard of coons being caught that

way,” he said, “but I never paid much

attention to it. Your grandfather should

know, though, for he was quite a coon

hunter when he was a boy.”

“From what he told me,” I said, “it

never fails.”

Papa asked if I wanted him to help

make my traps.

“No,” I said, “I think I can do it

myself.”

I didn’t sleep too well that night. I

bored holes, drove nails, and fought coons

practically all night.

Early the next morning I went to the

trash pile. As I stirred around in the rusty

old cans, I thought of another time I had

searched for a can. Finally I found the one

I wanted. It was bright and shiny.

Everything was going along just fine

until Mama caught me cutting out the

circles of tin with her scissors. I always

swore she could find the biggest switches

of any woman in the Ozarks. That time she

overdid it. I was almost to the river before

the stinging stopped.

It wasn’t hard to find places for my

traps. All along the river large sycamore

logs lay partly submerged in the clear blue

water. On one where I could see the

muddy little tracks of the ringtails, I bored

a hole, dropped in a piece of tin, and

drove my nails.

On down the river I went, making my

traps. I stopped when I ran out of nails.

Altogether I had fourteen traps.

That night Papa asked me how I was

making out.

“Oh, all right,” I said. “I’ve got fourteen

of them made.”

He laughed and said, “Well, you can’t

ever tell. You may catch one.”

The next morning I was up with the

chickens. I took my pups with me as I just

knew I’d have a big ringtail trapped and I

wanted them to see it. I was a

disappointed boy when I peeked out of a

canebrake at my last trap and didn’t see a

coon. All the way home I tried to figure

out what I had done wrong.

I went to Papa. He put his thinking cap

on and thought the situation over. “Maybe

you left too much scent around when you

made those traps,” he said. “If you did,

it’ll take a while for it to go away. Now I

wouldn’t get too impatient. I’m pretty sure

you’ll catch one sooner or later.”

Papa’s words perked me up just like air

does a deflated inner tube. He was right. I

had simply left too much scent around my

traps. All I had to do was wait until it

disappeared and I’d have my coon hide.

Morning after morning it was the same

old disappointment; no coon. When a

week had gone by and still no results from

my traps, I gave up. What little patience I

had was completely gone. I was firmly

convinced that coons didn’t walk on

sycamore logs any more, and bright shiny

objects had about as much effect on them

as a coon hound would.

One morning I didn’t get up to run my

trap line. I stayed in bed. What was the

use? It was just a waste of time.

When the family sat down to breakfast,

I heard my oldest sister say, “Mama, isn’t

Billy going to get up for breakfast?”

“Why, is he in his room?” Mama asked.

“I didn’t know. I thought he was down

looking at his traps.”

I heard Papa say, “I’ll go wake him

up.”

He came to the door and said, “You’d

better get up, Billy. Breakfast is ready.”

“I don’t want any breakfast,” I said.

“I’m not hungry.”

Papa took one look at me and saw I had

a bad case of the ringtail blues. He came

over and sat down on the bed.

“What’s the matter?” he asked. “You

having coon trouble?”

“Grandpa lied to me, Papa,” I said. “I

should’ve known better. Who ever heard

of anyone catching a coon with a brace

and bit and a few horseshoe nails.”

“I wouldn’t say that,” Papa said. “I

don’t think your grandpa deliberately lied

to you. Besides, I’ve heard of coons being

caught that way.”

“Well, I don’t think I’ve done anything

wrong,” I said. “I’ve done everything

exactly as he said, and I haven’t caught

one yet.”

“I still think it’s that scent,” Papa said.

“You know, someone told me, or I read it

somewhere, that it takes about a week for

scent to die away. How long has it been

since you made those traps?”

“It’s been over a week,” I said.

“Well, the way I figure, it’s about time

for you to catch one. Yes, sir, I wouldn’t

be surprised if you came in with one any

day now.”

After Papa had left the room I lay

thinking of what he had said. “Any day

now.” I got up and hurried into my clothes.

As soon as I was finished with

breakfast, I called my pups and lit out for

the river.

The first trap was empty. So was the

second one. That old feeling of doubt

came over me again. I thought, “It’s no

use. I’ll never catch one and I so need the

skin to train my pups.”

On the way to my third trap I had to

walk through a thick stand of wild cane. It

was tough going and my pups started

whimpering. I stopped and picked them

up.

“We’ll be out of this in a few minutes,”

I said, “and then you’ll be all right.”

I came plowing out of the matted mass

and was right on the trap before I realized

it. I was met by a loud squall. I was so

surprised I dropped the pups. There he

was, my first coon.

He was humped up on the sycamore

log, growling and showing his teeth. He

kept jerking his front paw, which was

jammed deep in the hole I had bored. He

was trapped by his own curiosity.

I couldn’t move and I felt like my wind

had been cut off. I kept hearing a noise but

couldn’t make out what it was. The

movement of the boy pup shook me from

my trance. The unidentified sound was his

bawling. He was trying to climb up on the

log and get to the coon.

I yelled at him and darted in to get hold

of his collar. On seeing my movement, the

coon let out another squall. It scared me

half to death. I froze in my tracks and

started yelling again at my pup.

The girl pup worked around behind the

coon and climbed up on the log. I

screamed at her. She paid no attention to

me.

Digging his sharp little claws in the

bark, the boy pup made it to the top. He

didn’t hesitate. Straight down that

sycamore log he charged. With teeth

bared, the coon waited. When my pup was

about two feet from him, he made a lunge.

The coon just seemed to pull my pup up

under his stomach and went to work with

tooth and claw.

The girl pup saved him. Like a cat in a

corn crib, she sneaked in from behind and

sank her needlesharp teeth in the coon’s

back.

It was too much for Old Ringy. He

turned the boy pup loose, turned around,

and slapped her clear off the log. She

came running to me, yelping her head off. I

grabbed her up in my arms and looked for

the boy pup. When the coon had turned

him loose, he too had fallen off the log. He

was trying to get back to the coon. I darted

in and grabbed him by the hind leg.

With a pup under each arm and running

as fast as I could, I lit out for the house.

Coming out of the bottoms into a fresh-

plowed field I set my pups down so I

could get a little more speed. I started

yelling as soon as I came in sight of the

house.

Mama came flying out with my sisters

right behind her. Papa was out by the barn

harnessing his team. Mama yelled

something to him about a snake. He

dropped the harness, jumped over the rail

fence, and in a long lope started for me.

Mama reached me first. She grabbed

me and shouted, “Where did it bite you?”

“Bite me?” I said. “Why Mama, I’m not

bit. I’ve got him, Mama. I’ve got him.”

“Got what?” Mama asked.

“A big coon,” I said. “The biggest one

in the river bottoms. He’s this big,

Mama.” I made a circle with my arms as

big as a twenty-gallon keg.

Mama just groaned way down deep and

covered her face with her hands. Some big

tears squeezed out between her fingers.

Almost in a whisper, I heard her say,

“Thank God; I thought you were snake-

bitten.”

My sisters, seeing Mama crying,

puckered up and started bawling.

“He needs a whipping,” the oldest one

said, “that’s what he needs, scaring Mama

that way.”

Something busted loose inside me and I

cried a little, too.

“I didn’t mean to scare Mama,” I

sniffed. “I just wanted everyone to know I

caught a coon.”

Up until this time Papa hadn’t said a

word. He just stood looking on.

“Here now,” he said, “let’s have none

of this crying. He didn’t mean to scare

anyone.”

Taking his handkerchief from his

pocket, he stepped over to Mama, put his

arm around her, and started drying her

eyes.

Mama poked her head around him and

glared at me. “Billy Colman,” she

shouted, “if you ever scare me like that

again, I’ll take a switch and wear you to a

frazzle.”

This hurt my feelings and I really did

get tuned up. “Everyone’s mad at me,” I

said, “and I haven’t done anything but

catch the biggest coon on the river.”

Mama came over. “I’m sorry,” she said.

“I didn’t mean to be cross, but you did

scare me. I thought a rattlesnake had bitten

you.”

“Now that that’s all settled,” Papa said,

“we had better go get that coon.” Looking

at Mama, he said, “Why don’t you and the

girls go with us. I don’t think it’ll take

long.”

Mama looked at me, smiled, and turned

to the girls. “Would you like to go?” she

asked.

Their only answer was a lot of

squealing and jumping up and down.

On the way, Mama noticed some blood

on my shirt. She stopped me and started

looking me over.

“Where did that come from?” she

asked. “Did that coon bite you?”

“No, Mama,” I said. “I didn’t get close

enough for him to bite me.”

With a worried look on her face, she

jerked out my shirt. “You don’t seem to be

scratched anywhere,” she said.

“Maybe this is where it came from,”

Papa said.

He reached down and picked up my boy

pup. His little black nose was split wide

open and was bleeding.

I saw a relieved look come over

Mama’s face.

Looking at me, she started shaking her

head. “I don’t know,” she said. “I just

don’t know.”

“Did that coon get hold of this pup?”

Papa asked.

“He sure did, Papa,” I said, “but it

wasn’t the coon’s fault. If it hadn’t been

for Little Ann, he’d have eaten him up.”

I told how my dogs had tied into the

coon.

Papa laughed as he fondled my pup.

“This dog is going to be a coon hound,” he

said, “and I mean a good one.”

The coon started squalling as soon as

we came in sight.

“My goodness,” Mama said, “you

wouldn’t think anything so small would be

so vicious.”

Papa picked up a club. “Now

everybody stand back out of the way,” he

said. “This won’t take long.”

My pups were wanting to get to the

coon so badly that they were hard to hold.

I had to squeeze them up tight to keep them

from jumping right out of my arms.

My sisters, with eyes as big as blue

marbles, got behind Mama and peeked

around her.

Papa whacked the coon a good one

across the head. He let out a loud squall,

growled, and showed his teeth. He tried

hard to get to Papa but the trap held him.

The girls buried their faces in Mama’s

dress and started bawling. Mama turned

her back on the fight. I heard her say, “I

wish we hadn’t come. Poor thing.”

Papa whacked him again and it was all

over.

It was too much for Mama and the girls.

They left. I heard the tall cane rattling as

they ran for the house.

After the coon was killed, I walked

over. Papa was trying to get the coon’s

paw from the trap. He couldn’t do it.

Taking a pair of pliers from his pocket, he

said, “It’s a good thing I had these along

or we would have had to cut his foot off.”

After Papa had pulled the nails, he

lifted the coon’s paw from the hole.

There, clamped firmly in it, was the bright

piece of tin.

In a low voice Papa said, “Well, I’ll be

darned. All he had to do was open it up

and he was free, but he wouldn’t do it.

Your grandfather was right.”

A sorrowful look came over Papa’s

face as he ran his fingers through the soft,

yellow hair. “Billy,” he said, “I want you

to take a hammer and pull the nails from

every one of those traps. It’s summertime

now and their fur isn’t any good. Besides,

I don’t think this is very sportsmanlike.

The coon doesn’t have a chance. It’s all

right this time. You needed this one, but

from now on I want you to catch them with

your dogs. That way they have a fifty-fifty

chance.”

“I will, Papa,” I said. “That’s what I

intended to do.”

While we were skinning the coon, Papa

asked me when I was going to start

training my dogs.

“I don’t know,” I said. “Do you think

they’re too young?”

“No, I don’t think so,” he said. “I’ve

heard that the younger they are the better it

is.”

“Well, in that case,” I said, “I’ll start

tomorrow.”

With the help of my oldest sister, we

started giving my pups their first lessons.

She would hold their collars while I made

trails with the hide for them to follow.

I’d climb trees that leaned out over the

river, jump out into the water, swim to the

other side, and make trails up and down

the bank. With a long pole and wire, I’d

drag the hide on top of rail fences, swing

it through the air, and let it touch the

ground twenty or thirty feet away. I did

everything with that hide a coon would do

and probably a lot of things a coon

couldn’t do.

It was a beautiful sight to see my pups

work those trails. At first they were

awkward and didn’t know what to do, but

they would never quit trying.

Old Dan would get so eager and

excited, he would overrun a trail. Where it

twisted or turned, he would run straight

on, bawling up a storm. It didn’t take him

long to realize that a smart old coon didn’t

always run in a straight line.

Little Ann never overran a trail. She

would wiggle and twist, cry and whine,

and pretty soon she would figure it out.

At first they were afraid of water. I

never would admit it even to myself. I

always said that they Just didn’t like to get

wet. They would follow the trail to the

stream and stop. Sitting down on their

rears, they would cry and beg for help.

With a pup under each arm, I’d wade out

into the stream and set them down in the

cool water. Nine times out of ten, one pup

would swim one way and the other one

would go just the opposite way. I had a

time with this part of their training, but my

persistence had no bounds.

It wasn’t long until they loved the

water. Old Dan would jump as far out as

he could and practically knock the river

dry. Little Ann would ease herself in and

swim like a muskrat for the opposite

shore.

I taught my dogs every trick I knew and

any new ones I heard about. I taught them

how to split up on a riverbank to search

for the hidden trail, because it was

impossible to tell where a coon would

come out of the water. Sometimes he

might swim downstream and other times

he might swim upstream. Maybe he would

come back to the bank he had just left, or

he would cross over to the other side.

Perhaps he would stop in the middle of the

stream on an old drift.

Sometimes he would come out of the

water by catching the dangling limbs of a

leaning birch and climbing up, never

touching the bank. Or he could come out

on the same trail he used to go in, and

back-track. He would sometimes crawl up

under an undermined bank or into an old

muskrat den.

One of the favorite tricks of a smart old

ringtail is the treebarking trick. This he

accomplished by running far up on the

side of a tree and using his stout legs for

leverage, springing twenty or thirty feet

away before touching the ground. Dumb

hounds trail up to the tree and start

bawling treed. I taught my dogs to circle

for a good hundred yards to be sure he

was still in the tree before bawling.

In order to learn more about coon

hunting, I’d hang around my grandfather’s

store and listen to the stories told by the

coon hunters. Some of the tales I heard

were long and tall, but I believed them all.

I could always tell when Grandpa was

kidding me by the twinkle in his eyes. He

told me how a coon could climb right up

the fog and disappear in the stars, and how

he could leap on a horse’s back and run

him over your dogs. I didn’t care, for I

loved to hear the tall tales. Anything that

had a coon hair in it I believed

completely.

All through that summer and into the

late fall the training went on. Although I

was worn down to a frazzle, I was a

happy boy. I figured I was ready for the

ringtails.

Late one evening, tired and exhausted, I

sat down by a big sycamore and called my

dogs to me. “It’s all over,” I said.

“There’ll be no more lessons. I’ve

worked hard and I’ve done my best. From

now on it’s all up to you. Hunting season

is just a few days away and I’m going to

let you rest for I want you to be in good

shape the night it opens.”

It was wonderful indeed how I could

have heart-to-heart talks with my dogs and

they always seemed to understand. Each

question I asked was answered in their

own doggish way.

Although they couldn’t talk in my terms,

they had a language of their own that was

easy to understand. Sometimes I would

see the answer in their eyes, and again it

would be in the friendly wagging of their

tails. Other times I could hear the answer

in a low whine or feel it in the soft caress

of a warm flicking tongue. In some way,

they would always answer.

VIII

THE DAY HUNTING SEASON OPENED, I WAS AS

NERVOUS AS Samie, our house cat. Part of

that seemingly endless day was spent

getting things ready for the coming night.

I cleaned my lantern and filled it full of

oil. With hog lard I greased my boots until

they were as soft as a hummingbird’s nest.

I was grinding my ax when Papa came

around.

He smiled as he said, “This is the big

night, isn’t it?”

“It sure is, Papa,” I said, “and I’ve

waited a long time for it.”

“Yes, I know,” he said. “I’ve been

thinking—there’s not too much to do

around here during the hunting season. I’m

pretty sure I can take care of things, so you

just go ahead and hunt all you want to.”

“Thanks, Papa,” I said. “I guess I’ll be

out pretty late at night, and I’ll probably

have to do a lot of sleeping in the

daytime.”

Papa started frowning. “You know,” he

said, “your mother doesn’t like this

hunting of yours very much. She’s worried

about you being out all by yourself.”

“I can’t see why Mama has to worry,” I

said. “Haven’t I been roaming the woods

ever since I was big enough to walk, and

I’m almost fourteen now.”

“I know,” said Papa. “It’s all right with

me, but women are a little different than

men. They worry more.

“Now just to be on the safe side, I think

it would be a good idea for you to tell us

where you’ll be hunting. Then if anything

happens, we’ll know where to look.”

I told him I would, but I didn’t think

anything was going to happen.

After Papa had left, I started thinking.

“He doesn’t even talk to me like I was a

boy any more. He talks to me like I was a

man.” These wonderful thoughts made me

feel just about as big as our old red mule.

I had a good talk with my dogs. “I’ve

waited almost three years for this night,” I

said, “and it hasn’t been easy. I’ve taught

you everything I know and I want you to

do your best.”

Little Ann acted like she understood.

She whined and saved me a wash job on

my face. Old Dan may have, but he didn’t

act like it. He just lay there in the

sunshine, all stretched out and limber as a

rag.

During supper Mama asked me where I

was going to hunt.

“I’m not going far,” I said, “just down

on the river.”

I could tell Mama was worried and it

didn’t make me feel too good.

“Billy,” she said, “I don’t approve of

this hunting, but it looks like I can’t say

no; not after all you’ve been through,

getting your dogs, and all that training.”

“Aw, he’ll be all right,” Papa said.

“Besides, he’s getting to be a good-size

man now.”

“Man!” Mama exclaimed. “Why, he’s

still just a little boy.”

“You can’t keep him a little boy

always,” Papa said. “He’s got to grow up

some day.”

“I know,” Mama said, “but I don’t like

it, not at all, and I can’t help worrying.”

“Mama, please don’t worry about me,”

I said. “I’ll be all right. Why, I’ve been all

over these hills, you know that.”

“I know,” she said, “but that was in the

daytime. I never worried too much when it

was daylight, but at night, that’s different.

It’ll be dark and anything could happen.”

“There won’t be anything happen,” I

said. “I promise I’ll be careful.”

Mama got up from the table saying,

“Well, it’s like I said, I can’t say no and I

can’t help worrying. I’ll pray every night

you’re out.”

The way Mama had me feeling, I didn’t

know whether to go hunting or not. Papa

must have sensed how I felt. “It’s dark

now,” he said, “and I understand those

coons start stirring pretty early. You had

better be going, hadn’t you?”

While Mama was bundling me up, Papa

lit my lantern. He handed it to me, saying,

“I’d like to see a big coonskin on the

smokehouse wall in the morning.”

The whole family followed me out on

the porch. There we all got a surprise. My

dogs were sitting on the steps, waiting for

me.

I heard Papa laugh. “Why, they know

you’re going hunting,” he said, “know it as

well as anything.”

“Well, I never,” said Mama. “Do you

really think they do? It does look like they

do. Why, just look at them.”

Little Ann

started

wiggling

and

twisting. Old Dan trotted out to the gate,

stopped, turned around, and looked at me.

“Sure they know Billy’s going hunting,”

piped the little one, “and I know why.”

“How do you know so much, silly?”

asked the oldest one.

“Because I told Little Ann, that’s why,”

she said, “and she told Old Dan. That’s

how they know.”

We all had to laugh at her.

The last thing I heard as I left the house

was the voice of my mother. “Be careful,

Billy,” she said, “and don’t stay out late.”

It was a beautiful night, still and frosty.

A big grinning Ozark moon had the

countryside bathed in a soft yellow glow.

The starlit heaven reminded me of a large

blue umbrella, outspread and with the

handle broken off.

Just before I reached the timber, I

called my dogs to me. “Now the trail will

be a little different tonight,” I whispered.

“It won’t be a hide dragged on the ground.

It’ll be the real thing, so remember

everything I taught you and I’m depending

on you. Just put one up a tree and I’ll do

the rest.”

I turned them loose, saying, “Go get

’em.”

They streaked for the timber.

By the time I had reached the river,

every nerve in my body was drawn up as

tight as a fiddlestring. Big-eyed and with

ears open, I walked on, stopping now and

then to listen. The way I was slipping

along anyone would have thought I was

trying to slip up on a coon myself.

I had never seen a night so peaceful and

still. All around me tall sycamores

gleamed like white streamers in the

moonlight. A prowling skunk came

wobbling up the riverbank. He stopped

when he saw me. I smiled at the fox-fire

glow of his small, beady, red eyes. He

turned and disappeared in the underbrush.

I heard a sharp snap and a feathery rustle

in some brush close by. A small rodent

started squealing in agony. A night hawk

had found his supper.

Across the river and from far back in

the rugged mountains I heard the baying of

a hound. I wondered if it was the same

one I had heard from my window on those

nights so long ago.

Although my eyes were seeing the

wonders of the night, my ears were ever

alert, listening for the sound of my hounds

telling me they had found a trail.

I was expecting one of them to bawl,

but when it came it startled me. The deep

tones of Old Dan’s voice jarred the

silence around me. I dropped my ax and

almost dropped my lantern. A strange

feeling came over me. I took a deep breath

and threw back my head to give the call of

the hunter, but something went wrong. My

throat felt like it had been tied in a knot. I

swallowed a couple of times and the knot

disappeared.

As loud as I could, I whooped, “Who-

e-e-e. Get him, Dan. Get him.”

Little Ann came in. The bell-like tones

of her voice made shivers run up and

down my spine. I whooped to her. “Who-

e-e-e. Tell it to him, little girl. Tell it to

him.”

This was what I had prayed for, worked

and sweated for, my own little hounds

bawling on the trail of a river coon. I

don’t know why I cried, but I did. While

the tears rolled, I whooped again and

again.

They straightened the trail out and

headed down river. I took off after them as

fast as I could run.

A mile downstream the coon pulled his

first trick. I could tell by my dogs’ voices

that they had lost the trail. When I came to

them they were out on an old drift, sniffing

around.

The coon had pulled a simple trick. He

had run out on the drift, leaped into the

water, and crossed the river. To an

experienced coon hound, the crude trick

would have been nothing at all, but my

dogs were just big, awkward pups,

trailing their first live coon.

I stood and watched, wondering if they

would remember the training I had given

them. Now and then I would whoop,

urging them on.

Old Dan was having a fit. He whined

and he bawled. He whimpered and cried.

He came to me and reared up, begging for

help.

“I’m not going to help you,” I scolded,

“and you’re not going to find him out on

that drift. If you would just remember

some of the training I gave you, you could

find the trail. Now go find that coon.”

He ran back out on the drift and started

searching.

Little Ann came to me. I could see the

pleading in her warm gray eyes. “I’m

ashamed of you, little girl,” I said. “I

thought you had more sense than this. If

you let him fool you this easily, you’ll

never be a coon dog.”

She whined, turned, and trotted

downstream to search again for the lost

trail.

I couldn’t understand. Had all the

training I had given them been useless? I

knew if I waded the river they would

follow me. Once on the other side, it

would be easy for them to find the trail. I

didn’t want it that way. I wanted them to

figure it out by themselves. The more I

thought about it, the more disgusted I

became. I sat down and buried my face in

my arms.

Out on the drift, Old Dan started

whining. It made me angry and I got up to

scold him again.

I couldn’t understand his actions. He

was running along the edge of the drift,

whimpering and staring downriver. I

looked that way. I could see something

swimming for the opposite shore. At first I

thought it was a muskrat. In the middle of

the stream, where the moonlight was the

brightest, I got a good look. It was Little

Ann.

With a loud whoop, I told her how

proud I was. My little girl had

remembered her training.

She came out on a gravel bar, shook the

water from her body, and disappeared in

the thick timber. Minutes later, she let me

know she had found the trail. Before the

tones of her voice had died away, Old

Dan plowed into the water. He was so

eager to join her I could hear him whining

as he swam.

As soon as his feet touched bottom in

the shallows, he started bawling and

lunging. White sheets of water, knocked

high in the moonlight by his churning feet,

gleamed like thousands of tiny white stars.

He came out of the river onto a sand

bar. In his eagerness, his feet slipped in

the loose sand and down he went. He

came out of his roll, running and bawling.

Ahead of him was a log jam. He sailed

over it and disappeared down the

riverbank. Seconds later I heard his deep

voice blend with the sharp cries of Little

Ann.

At that moment no boy in the world

could have been more proud of his dogs

than I was. Never again would I doubt

them.

I was hurrying along, looking for a

shallow riffle so I could wade across,

when the voices of my dogs stopped. I

waited and listened. They opened again on

my side of the stream. The coon had

crossed back over.

I couldn’t help smiling. I knew that

never again would a ringtail fool them by

swimming the river.

The next trick the old fellow pulled was

dandy. He climbed a large water oak

standing about ten feet from the river and

simply disappeared.

I got there in time to see my dogs

swimming for the opposite shore. For half

an hour they worked that bank. Not finding

the trail, they swam back. I stood and

watched them. They practically tore the

riverbank to pieces looking for the trail.

Old Dan knew the coon had climbed the

water oak. He went back, reared up on it,

and bawled a few times.

“There’s no use in doing that, boy,” I

said. “I know he climbed it, but he’s not

there now. Maybe it’s like Grandpa said,

he just climbed right on out through the top

and disappeared in the stars.”

My dogs didn’t know it, but I was pretty

well convinced that that was what the

coon had done.

They wouldn’t give up. Once again they

crossed over to the other shore. It was no

use. The coon hadn’t touched that bank.

They came back. Old Dan went up the

river and Little Ann worked downstream.

An hour and a half later they gave up

and came to me begging for help. I knelt

down between their wet bodies. While I

scratched and petted them, I let them know

that I still loved them.

“I’m not mad,” I said. “I know you did

your best. If that coon can fool both of us,

then we’re just beat. We’ll go someplace

else to hunt. He’s not the only coon in

these bottoms.”

Just as I picked up my ax and lantern,

Little Ann let out a bawl and tore out

down the riverbank. Old Dan, with a

bewildered look on his face, stood for a

moment looking after her. Then, raising

his head high in the air, he made my

eardrums ring with his deep voice. I could

hear the underbrush popping as he ran to

join her.

I couldn’t figure out what had taken

place. Surely Little Ann had heard or seen

something. I could tell by their voices that

whatever it was they were after, they were

close enough to see it and were probably

running by sight.

The animal left the bottoms and headed

for the mountains. Whatever it was, it must

have realized my dogs were crowding it

too closely. At the edge of the foothills it

turned and came back toward the river.

I was still trying to figure out what was

going on, when I realized that on striking

the river the animal had again turned and

was coming straight toward me. I set my

lantern down and tightened my grip on the

ax.

I was standing my ground quite well

when visions of bears, lions, and all kinds

of other animals started flashing across my

mind. I jumped behind a big sycamore and

was trying hard to press my body into the

tree when a big coon came tearing by.

Twenty-five yards behind him came my

dogs, running side by side. I saw them

clearly when they passed me, bawling

every time their feet touched the ground.

After seeing that there was nothing to be

scared of, once again I was the fearless

hunter, screaming and yelling as loud as I

could, “Get him, boy, get him.”

I tore out after them. The trails I knew

so well were forgotten. I took off straight

through the brush. I was tearing my way

through some elders when the voices of

my dogs stopped.

Holding my breath, I stood still and

waited. Then it came, the long-drawn-out

bawl of the tree bark. My little hounds had

done it. They had treed their first coon.

When I came to them and saw what they

had done I was speechless. I groaned and

closed my eyes. I didn’t want to believe it.

There were a lot of big sycamores in the

bottoms but the one in which my dogs had

treed was the giant of them all.

While prowling the woods, I had seen

the big tree many times. I had always

stopped and admired it. Like a king in his

own domain, it towered far above the

smaller trees.

It had taken me quite a while to find a

name suitable for the big sycamore. For a

while I had called it “the chicken tree.” In

some ways it had reminded me of a

mother hen hovering over her young in a

rainstorm. Its huge limbs spread out over

the small birch, ash, box elder, and water

oak as if it alone were their protector.

Next, I named it “the giant.” That name

didn’t last long. Mama told us children a

story about a big giant that lived in the

mountains and ate little children that were

lost. Right away I started looking for

another name.

One day, while lying in the warm sun

staring at its magnificent beauty, I found

the perfect name. From that day on, it was

called “the big tree.” I named the bottoms

around it “the big tree bottoms.”

Walking around it, and using the moon

as a light, I started looking for the coon.

High up in the top I saw a hollow in the

end of a broken limb. I figured that that

was the coon’s den.

I could climb almost any tree I had ever

seen but I knew I could never climb the

big sycamore and it would take days to

chop it down.

There had been very little hope from the

beginning, but on seeing the hollow I gave

up. “Come on,” I said to my dogs.

“There’s nothing I can do. We’ll go

someplace else and find another coon.”

I turned to walk away. My hounds made

no move to follow. They started whining.

Old Dan reared up, placed his front paws

on the trunk, and started bawling.

“I know he’s there,” I said, “but there’s

nothing I can do. I can’t climb it. Why it’s

sixty feet up to the first limb and it would

take me a month to cut it down.”

Again I turned and started on my way.

Little Ann came to me. She reared up

and started licking my hands. Swallowing

the knot in my throat, I said, “I’m sorry,

little girl. I want him just as badly as you

do, but there’s no way I can get him.”

She ran back to the tree and started

digging in the soft ground close to the

roots.

“Come on now,” I said in a gruff voice.

“You’re both acting silly. You know I’d

get the coon for you if I could but I can’t.”

With a whipped-dog look on her face

and with her tail between her legs, Little

Ann came over. She wouldn’t even look at

me. Old Dan walked slowly around

behind the tree and hid himself. He

peeped around the big trunk and looked at

me. The message I read in his friendly

eyes tore at my heart. He seemed to be

saying, “You told us to put one in a tree

and you would do the rest.”

With tears in my eyes, I looked again at

the big sycamore. A wave of anger came

over me. Gritting my teeth, I said, “I don’t

care how big you are, I’m not going to let

my dogs down. I told them if they put a

coon in a tree I would do the rest and I’m

going to. I’m going to cut you down. I

don’t care if it takes me a whole year.”

I walked over and sank my ax as deep

as I could in the smooth white bark. My

dogs threw a fit. Little Ann started turning

in circles. I could hear her pleased

whimpering cry. Old Dan bawled and

started gnawing on the big tree’s trunk.

At first it was easy. My ax was sharp

and the chips flew. Two hours later things

were different. My arms felt like two dead

grapevines, and my back felt like someone

had pulled a plug out of one end of it and

drained all the sap out.

While taking a breather, I saw I was

making more progress than I thought I

would. The cut I had started was a foot

deep, but I still had a long way to go.

Sitting on their rears, my dogs waited

and watched. I smiled at the look on their

faces. Every time I stopped chopping they

would come over. While Little Ann

washed the sweat from my face, Old Dan

would inspect my work. He seemed to be

pleased with what he saw for he always

wagged his tail.

Along about daylight I got my second

wind and I really did make the chips fly.

This burst of energy cost me dearly. By

sunup I was so stiff I could hardly move.

My hands and arms were numb. My back

screamed with pain. I could go no further.

Sitting down, I leaned back against the big

tree and fell asleep.

Little Ann woke me up by washing my

face. I groaned with the torture of getting

to my feet. Every muscle in my body

seemed to be tied in a knot. I was thinking

of going down to the river to wash my

face in the cool water when I heard a loud

whoop. I recognized my father’s voice. I

whooped to let him know where I was.

Papa was riding our red mule. After he

rode up, he just sat there and looked me

over. He glanced at my dogs and at the big

sycamore. I saw the worry leave his face.

He straightened his shoulders, pursed his

lips, and blew out a little air. He

reminded me of someone who had just

dropped a heavy load.

In a slow, calm voice, he asked, “Are

you all right, Billy?”

“Yes, Papa,” I said. “Oh, I’m a little

tired and sleepy, otherwise I’m fine.”

He slid from the mule’s back and came

over. “Your mother’s worried,” he said.

“When you didn’t come in, we didn’t

know what had happened. You should’ve

come home.”

I didn’t know what to say. I bowed my

head and looked at the ground. I was

trying hard to choke back the tears when I

felt his hand on my shoulder.

“I’m not scolding,” he said. “We just

thought maybe you had an accident or

something.”

I looked up and saw a smile on his face.

He turned and looked again at the tree.

“Say,” he said, “this is the sycamore you

call ‘the big tree,’ isn’t it?”

I nodded my head.

“Is there a coon in it?” he asked.

“There sure is, Papa,” I said. “He’s in

that hollow limb. See—that one way up

there. That’s why I couldn’t come home. I

was afraid he’d get away.”

“Maybe you just think he’s there,” Papa

said. “I believe I’d make sure before I’d

cut down a tree that big.”

“Oh, he’s there all right,” I said. “My

dogs weren’t ten feet behind him when he

went up it.”

“Why are you so determined to get this

coon?” Papa asked. “Couldn’t you go

somewhere else and tree one? Maybe the

tree would be a smaller one.”

“I thought about that, Papa,” I said, “but

I made a bargain with my dogs. I told them

that if they would put one in a tree, I’d do

the rest. Well, they fulfilled their part of

the bargain. Now it’s up to me to do my

part, and I’m going to, Papa. I’m going to

cut it down. I don’t care if it takes me a

year.”

Papa laughed and said, “Oh, I don’t

think it’ll take that long, but it will take a

while. I tell you what I‘ll do. You take the

mule and go get some breakfast. I’ll chop

on it until you get back.”

“No, Papa,” I said. “I don’t want any

help. I want to cut it down all by myself.

You see, if someone helps me, I wouldn’t

feel like I kept my part of the agreement.”

An astonished look came over my

father’s face. “Why, Billy,” he said, “you

can’t stay down here without anything to

eat and no sleep. Besides, it’ll take at

least two days to cut that tree down and

that’s hard work.”

“Please, Papa,” I begged, “don’t make

me quit. I just have to get that coon. If I

don’t, my dogs won’t ever believe in me

again.”

Papa didn’t know what to tell me. He

scratched his head, looked over to my

dogs and back at me. He started walking

around. I waited for him to make up his

mind. He finally reached a decision.

“Well, all right,” he said.” If that’s the

way you want it, I’m for it even if it is

only an agreement between you and your

dogs. If a man’s word isn’t any good, he’s

no good himself.

“Now I have to get back and tell your

mother that you’re all right. It’s a cinch

that you can’t do that kind of work on an

empty stomach, so I’ll send your oldest

sister down with a lunch bucket.”

With tears in my eyes, I said, “Tell

Mama I’m sorry for not coming home last

night.”

“Don’t you worry about your mother,”

he said, as he climbed on the mule’s back.

“I’ll take care of her. Another thing, I have

to make a trip to the store today and I’ll

talk this over with your grandfather. He

may be able to help some way.”

After Papa left, things were a little

different. The tree didn’t look as big, and

my ax wasn’t as heavy. I even managed to

sing a little as I chopped away.

When my sister came with the lunch

bucket, I could have kissed her, but I

didn’t. She took one look at the big tree

and her blue eyes got as big as a guinea’s

egg.

“You’re

crazy,”

she

gasped,

“absolutely crazy. Why, it’ll take a month

to cut that tree down, and all for an old

coon.”

I was so busy with the fresh side pork,

fried eggs, and hot biscuits, I didn’t pay

much attention to her. After all, she was a

girl, and girls don’t think like boys do.

She raved on. “You can’t possibly cut it

down today, and what are you going to do

when it gets dark?”

“I’m going to keep right on chopping,” I

said. “I stayed with it last night, didn’t I?

Well, I’ll stay till it’s cut down. I don’t

care how long it takes.”

My sister got upset. She looked at me,

threw back her small head, and looked up

to the top of the big sycamore. “You’re as

crazy as a bedbug,” she said. “Why, I

never heard of such a thing.”

She stepped over in front of me and

very seriously asked if she could look in

my eyes.

“Look in my eyes?” I said. “What do

you want to do that for? I’m not sick.”

“Yes, you are, Billy,” she said, “very

sick. Mama said when Old Man Johnson

went crazy, his eyes turned green. I want

to see if yours have.”

This was too much. “If you don’t get out

of here,” I shouted, “you’re going to be

red instead of green, and I mean that.”

I grabbed up a stick and started toward

her. Of course, I wouldn’t have hit her for

anything.

This scared her and she started for the

house. I heard her saying something about

an old coon as she disappeared in the

underbrush.

Down in the bottom of my lunch bucket

I found a neat little package of scraps for

my dogs. While they were eating I walked

down to a spring and filled the bucket

with cool water.

The food did wonders for me. My

strength came back. I spit on my hands

and, whistling a coon hunter’s tune, I

started making the chips fly.

The cut grew so big I could have laid

down in it. I moved over to another side

and started a new one. Once while I was

taking a rest, Old Dan came over to

inspect my work. He hopped up in the cut

and sniffed around.

“You had better get out of there,” I said.

“If that tree takes a notion to fall, it’ll

mash you flatter than a tadpole’s tail.”

With a “no care” look on his friendly

face, he gave me a hurry-up signal with a

wag of his tail.

Little Ann had dug a bed in a pile of

dead leaves. She looked as if she were

asleep but I knew she wasn’t. Every time I

stopped swinging the ax, she would raise

her head and look at me.

IX

BY LATE EVENING THE HAPPY TUNE I HAD BEEN

WHISTLING was forgotten. My back throbbed

like a stone bruise. The muscles in my

legs and arms started quivering and

jerking. I couldn’t gulp enough air to cool

the burning heat in my lungs. My strength

was gone. I could go no further.

I sat down and called my dogs to me.

With tears in my eyes, I told them that I

just couldn’t cut the big tree down.

I was trying hard to make them

understand when I heard someone coming.

It was Grandpa in his buggy.

I’m sure no one in the world can

understand a young boy like his

grandfather can. He drove up with a

twinkle in his eyes and a smile on his

whiskery old face.

“Hello! How are you gettin’ along?” he

boomed.

“Not so good, Grandpa,” I said. “I

don’t think I can cut it down. It’s just too

big. I guess I’ll have to give up.”

“Give up!” Grandpa barked. “Now I

don’t want to hear you say that. No, sir,

that’s the last thing I want to hear. Don’t

ever start anything you can’t finish.”

“I don’t want to give up, Grandpa,” I

said, “but it’s just too big and my

strength’s gone. I’m give out.”

“Course you are,” he said. “You’ve

been going at it wrong. To do work like

that a fellow needs plenty of rest and food

in his stomach.”

“How am I going to get that, Grandpa?”

I asked. “I can’t leave the tree. If I do, the

coon will get away.”

“No, he won’t,” Grandpa said. “That’s

what I came down here for. I’ll show you

how to keep that coon in the tree.”

He walked around the big sycamore,

looking up. He whistled and said, “Boy,

this is a big one all right.”

“Yes, it is, Grandpa,” I said. “It’s the

biggest one in the river bottoms.”

Grandpa started chuckling. “That’s all

right,” he said. “The bigger they are the

harder they fall.”

“How are you going to make the coon

stay in the tree, Grandpa?” I asked.

With a proud look on his face, he said,

“That’s another one of my coon-hunting

tricks; learned it when I was a boy. We’ll

keep him there all right. Oh, I don’t mean

we can keep him there for always, but

he’ll stay for four or five days. That is,

until he gets so hungry he just has to come

down.”

“I don’t need that much time,” I said.

“I’m pretty sure I can have it down by

tomorrow night.”

Grandpa looked at the cut. “I don’t

know,” he said. “Even though it is halfway

down, you must remember you’ve been

cutting on it half of one night and one day.

You might make it, but it’s going to take a

lot of chopping.”

“If I get a good night’s sleep,” I said,

“and a couple of meals under my belt, I

can do a lot of chopping.”

Grandpa laughed. “Speaking of meals,”

he said, “your ma is having chicken and

dumplings for supper. Now we don’t want

to miss that, so let’s get busy.”

“What do you want me to do,

Grandpa?” I asked.

“Well, let’s see,” he said. “First thing

we’ll need is some sticks about five feet

long. Take your ax, go over in that

canebrake, and get us six of them.”

I hurried to do what Grandpa wanted,

all the time wondering what in the world

he was going to do. How could he keep

the coon in the tree?

When I came back, he was taking some

old clothes from the buggy. “Take this

stocking cap,” he said. “Fill it about half-

full of grass and leaves.”

While I was doing this, Grandpa

walked over and started looking up in the

tree. “You’re pretty sure he’s in that

hollow limb, are you?” he asked.

“He’s there all right, Grandpa,” I said.

“There’s no other place he could be. I’ve

looked all over it and there’s no other

hollow anywhere.”

“Well, in that case,” Grandpa said,

“we’d better put our man along about

here.”

“What man, Grandpa?” I asked in

surprise.

“The one we’re going to make,” he

said. “To us it’ll be a scarecrow, but to

that coon it’ll be a man.”

Knowing too well how smart coons

were, right away I began to lose

confidence. “I don’t see how anything like

that can keep a coon in a tree,” I said.

“It’ll keep him there all right,” Grandpa

said. “Like I told you before, they’re

curious little devils. He’ll poke his head

out of that hole, see this man standing

here, and he won’t dare come down. It’ll

take him four or five days to figure out that

it isn’t a real honest-to-goodness man. By

that time it’ll be too late. You’ll have his

hide tacked on the smokehouse wall.”

The more I thought about it, the more I

believed it, and then there was that serious

look on Grandpa’s face. That was all it

took. I was firmly convinced.

I started laughing. The more I thought

about it, the funnier it got. Great big

laughing tears rolled down my cheek.

“What’s so funny?” Grandpa asked.

“Don’t you believe it’ll work?”

“Sure it’ll work, Grandpa,” I said. “I

know it will. I was just thinking—those

coons aren’t half as smart as they think

they are, are they?”

We both had a good laugh at this.

With the sticks and some bailing wire,

Grandpa made a frame that looked almost

like a gingerbread man. On this he put an

old pair of pants and a red sweater. We

stuffed the loose flabby clothes with grass

and leaves. He wired the stocking-cap

head in place and stepped back to inspect

his work.

“Well, what do you think of it?” he

asked.

“If it had a face,” I said, “you couldn’t

tell it from a real man.”

“We can fix that,” Grandpa chuckled.

He took a stick and dug some black

grease from one of the hub caps on the

buggy. I stood and watched while he

applied his artistic touch. In the stocking-

cap head he made two mean-looking eyes,

a crooked nose, and the ugliest mouth I

had ever seen.

“Well, what do you think of that?” he

asked. “Looks pretty good, huh?”

Laughing fit to kill, and talking all at the

same time, I told him that I wouldn’t

blame the coon if he stayed in the tree

until Gabriel blew his horn.

“He won’t stay that long,” Grandpa

chuckled, “but he’ll stay long enough for

you to cut that tree down.”

“That’s all I want,” I said.

“We’d better be going,” Grandpa said.

“It’s getting late and we don’t want to

miss that supper.”

I was so stiff and sore he had to help

me to the buggy seat.

I called to my dogs. Little Ann came,

but not willingly. Old Dan refused to

leave the tree.

“Come on, boy,” I coaxed. “Let’s go

home and get something to eat. We’ll

come back tomorrow.”

He bowed his head and looked the

other way.

“Come on,” I scolded, “we can’t sit

here all night.”

This hurt his feelings. He walked

around behind the big sycamore and hid.

“Well, I’ll be darned,” Grandpa said as

he jumped down from the buggy. “He

knows that coon’s there and he doesn’t

want to leave it. You’ve got a coon hound

there and I mean a good one.”

He picked Old Dan up in his arms and

set him in the buggy.

All the way home I had to hold on to his

collar to keep him from jumping out and

going back to the tree.

As our buggy wound its way up through

the bottoms, Grandpa started talking. “You

know, Billy,” he said, “about this tree-

chopping of yours, I think it’s all right. In

fact, I think it would be a good thing if all

young boys had to cut down a big tree like

that once in their life. It does something

for them. It gives them determination and

will power. That’s a good thing for a man

to have. It goes a long way in his life. The

American people have a lot of it. They

have proved that, all down through

history, but they could do with a lot more

of it.”

I couldn’t see this determination and

will power that Grandpa was talking

about very clearly. All I could see was a

big sycamore tree, a lot of chopping, and

the hide of a ringtail coon that I was

determined to have.

As we reached the house, Mama came

out. Right away she started checking me

over. “Are you all right?” she asked.

“Sure, Mama,” I said. “What makes you

think something’s wrong with me?”

“Well, I didn’t know,” she said. “The

way you acted when you got down from

the buggy, I thought maybe you were hurt.”

“Aw, he’s just a little sore and stiff

from all that chopping,” Grandpa said,

“but he’ll be all right. That’ll soon go

away.”

After Mama saw that there were no

broken bones, or legs chopped off, she

smiled and said, “I never know any more.

I guess I’ll just have to get used to it.”

Papa hollered from the porch, “Come

on in. We’ve been waiting supper on

you.”

“We’re having chicken and dumplings,”

Mama beamed, “and I cooked them

especially for you.”

During the meal I told Grandpa I didn’t

think that the coon in the big tree was the

same one my dogs had been trailing at

first.

“What makes you think that?” he asked.

I told how the coon had fooled us and

how Little Ann had seen or heard this

other coon. I figured he had just walked up

on my dogs before he realized it.

A smile spread all over Grandpa’s

face. Chuckling, he said, “It does look that

way, but it wasn’t. No, Billy, it was the

same coon. They’re much too smart to

ever walk up on a hound like that. He

pulled a trick and it was a good one. In

fact, it’ll fool nine out of ten dogs.”

“Well, what did he do, Grandpa?” I

asked. “I’m pretty sure he didn’t cross the

river, so how did he work it?”

Grandpa pushed the dishes back and,

using his fork as a pencil, he drew an

imaginary line on the tablecloth. “It’s

called the backtracking trick,” he said.

“Here’s how he worked it. He climbed

that water oak but he only went up about

fifteen or twenty feet. He then turned

around and came down in his same tracks.

He backtracked on his original trail for a

way. When he heard your dogs coming he

leaped far up on the side of the nearest

tree and climbed up. He was in that tree

all the time your dogs were searching for

the lost trail. After everything had quieted

down, he figured that they had given up.

That’s when he came down and that’s

when Little Ann either heard or saw him.”

Pointing the fork at me, Grandpa said

very seriously, “You mark my word,

Billy, in no time at all that Little Ann will

know every trick a coon can pull.”

“You know, Grandpa,” I said, “she

wouldn’t bark treed at the water oak like

Old Dan did.”

“Course she wouldn’t,” he said. “She

knew he wasn’t there.”

“Why, I never heard of such a thing,”

Mama said. “I’d no idea coons were that

smart. Why, for all anyone knows he may

not be in the big tree at all. Maybe he

pulled another trick. It’d be a shame if

Billy cut it down and found there was no

coon in it.”

“Oh, he’s there, Mama,” I hastily

replied. “I know he is. They were right on

his tail when he went up. Besides, Little

Ann was bawling her head off when I

came to them.”

“Of course he’s there,” Grandpa said.

“They were crowding him too closely. He

didn’t have time to pull another trick.”

Grandpa left soon after supper, saying

to me, “I’ll be back down in a few days

and I want to see that coon hide.”

I thanked him for helping me and

walked out to the buggy with him.

“Oh, I almost forgot,” he said. “I heard

there was a fad back in the New England

states. Seems like everyone is going crazy

over coonskin coats. Now if this is true, I

look for the price of coon hides to take a

jump.”

I was happy to hear this and told my

father what Grandpa had said. Papa

laughed and said, “Well, if you can keep

the coons out of those big sycamores, you

might make a little money.”

Before I went to bed, Mama made me

take a hot bath. Then she rubbed me all

over with some liniment that burned like

fire and smelled like a civet cat.

It seemed like I had barely closed my

eyes when Mama woke me up. “Breakfast

is about ready, Billy,” she said.

I was so stiff and sore I had trouble

putting my clothes on. Mama helped me.

“Maybe you’d better let that coon go,”

she said. “I don’t think he’s worth all of

this.”

“I can’t do that, Mama,” I said. “I’ve

gone too far now.”

Papa came in from the barn. “What’s

the matter?” he asked. “You a little stiff?”

“A little stiff!” Mama exclaimed. “Why

he could hardly put his clothes on.”

“Aw, he’ll be all right,” Papa said. “If I

know anything about swinging an ax, it

won’t be long before he’s as limber as a

rag.”

Mama just shook her head and started

putting our breakfast on the table.

While we were eating, Papa said, “You

know I woke up several times last night

and each time I was sure I heard a hound

bawling. It sounded like Old Dan.”

I quit the table on the run and headed

for my doghouse. I didn’t have to go all

the way. Little Ann met me on the porch. I

asked her where Old Dan was and called

his name. He was nowhere around.

Little Ann started acting strangely. She

whined and stared toward the river

bottoms. She ran out to the gate, came

back, and reared up on me.

Mama and Papa came out on the porch.

“He’s not here,” I said. “I think he has

gone back to the tree.”

“I don’t think he’d do that, would he?”

Mama

said.

“Maybe

he’s

around

someplace. Have you looked in the

doghouse?”

I ran and looked. He wasn’t there.

“Everybody be quiet and listen,” I said.

I walked out beyond the gate a little

ways and whooped as loud as I could. My

voice rang like a bell in the still, frosty

morning. Before the echo had died away

the deep “Ou-u-u-u” of Old Dan rolled out

of the river bottoms.

“He’s there,” I said. “He wanted to

make sure the coon stayed in the tree. You

see, Mama, why I have to get that coon. I

can’t let him down.”

“Well, I never in all my life,” she said.

“I had no idea a dog loved to hunt that

much. Yes, Billy, I can see now, and I

want you to get him. I don’t care if you

have to cut down every tree in those

bottoms. I want you to get that coon for

those dogs.”

“I’m going to get him, Mama,” I said,

“and I’m going to get him today if I

possibly can.”

Papa laughed and said, “Looks like

there wasn’t any use in building that

scarecrow. All you had to do was tell Old

Dan to stay and watch the tree.”

I left the house in a run. Now and then I

would stop and whoop. Each time I was

answered by the deep voice of Old Dan.

Little Ann ran ahead of me. By the time

I reached the big tree, their voices were

making the bottoms ring.

When I came tearing out of the

underbrush, Old Dan threw a fit. He tried

to climb the sycamore. He would back

way off, then, bawling and running as fast

as he could, he would claw his way far up

on its side.

Little Ann, not to be outdone, reared up

and placed her small front paws on the

smooth white bark. She told the ringtail

coon that she knew he was there.

After they had quieted down, I called

Old Dan to me. “I’m proud of you, boy,” I

said. “It takes a good dog to stay with a

tree all night, but there wasn’t any need in

you coming back. The coon wouldn’t have

gotten away. That’s why we built the

scarecrow.”

Little Ann came over and started rolling

in the leaves. The way I was feeling

toward her, I couldn’t even smile at her

playful mood. “Of course you feel good,”

I said in an irritated voice, “and it’s no

wonder, you had a good night’s sleep in a

nice warm doghouse, but Old Dan didn’t.

He was down here in the cold all by

himself, watching the tree. The way you’re

acting, I don’t believe you care if the coon

gets away or not.”

I would have said more but just then I

noticed something. I walked over for a

better look. There, scratched deep in the

soft leaves were two little beds. One was

smaller than the other. Looking at Little

Ann, I read the answer in her warm gray

eyes.

Old Dan hadn’t been alone when he had

gone back to the tree. She too had gone

along. There was no doubt that in the early

morning she had come home to get me.

There was a lump in my throat as I said,

“I’m sorry, little girl, I should’ve known.”

The first half-hour was torture. At each

swing of the ax my arms felt like they

were being torn from their sockets. I

gritted my teeth and kept hacking away.

My body felt like it did the time my sister

rolled me down the hill in a barrel.

As Papa had said, in a little while the

warm heat from the hard work limbered

me up. I remembered what my father did

when he was swinging an ax. At the

completion of each swing, he always said,

“Ha!” I tried it. Ker-wham. “Ha!” Ker-

wham. “Ha!” I don’t know if it helped or

not, but I was willing to try anything if it

would hurry the job.

Several times before noon I had to stop

and rake my chips out of the way. I

noticed that they weren’t the big, even,

solid chips like my father made when he

was chopping. They were small and

seemed to crumble up and come all to

pieces. Neither were the cuts neat and

even. They were ragged and looked more

like the work of beavers. But I wasn’t

interested in any beautiful tree-chopping.

All I wanted was to hear the big sycamore

start popping.

Along in the middle of the afternoon I

felt a stinging in one of my hands. When I

saw it was a blister I almost cried. At first

there was only one. Then two. One after

another they rose up on my hands like

small white marbles. They filled up and

turned a pale pinkish color. When one

would burst, it was all I could do to keep

from screaming. I tore my handkerchief in

half and wrapped my hands. This helped

for a while, but when the cloth began to

stick to the raw flesh I knew it was the

end.

Crying my heart out, I called my dogs to

me and showed them my hands. “I can’t do

it,” I said. “I’ve tried, but I just can’t cut it

down. I can’t hold the ax any longer.”

Little Ann whined and started licking

my sore hands. Old Dan seemed to

understand. He showed his sympathy by

nuzzling me with his head.

Brokenhearted, I started for home. As I

turned, from the corner of my eye I saw

Grandpa’s scarecrow. It seemed to be

laughing at me. I looked over to the big

sycamore. It lacked so little being cut

down. A small wedge of solid wood was

all that was holding it up. I let my eyes

follow the smooth white trunk up to the

huge spreading limbs.

Sobbing, I said, “You think you have

won, but you haven’t. Although I can’t get

the coon, neither can you live, because I

have cut off your breath of life.” And then

I thought. “Why kill the big tree and not

accomplish anything?” I began to feel bad.

Kneeling down between my dogs, I

cried and prayed. “Please God, give me

the strength to finish the job. I don’t want

to leave the big tree like that. Please help

me finish the job.”

I was trying to rewrap my hands so I

could go back to work when I heard a low

droning sound. I stood up and looked

around. I could still hear the noise but

couldn’t locate it. I looked up. High in the

top of the big sycamore a breeze had

started the limbs to swaying. A shudder

ran through the huge trunk.

I looked over to my right at a big black

gum tree. Not one limb was moving. On

its branches a few dead leaves hung silent

and still. One dropped and floated lazily

toward the ground.

Over on my left stood a large

hackberry. I looked up to its top. It was as

still as a fence post.

Another gust of wind caught in the top

of the big tree. It started popping and

snapping. I knew it was going to fall.

Grabbing my dogs by their collars, I

backed off to safety.

I held my breath. The top of the big

sycamore rocked and swayed. There was

a loud crack that seemed to come from

deep inside the heavy trunk. Fascinated, I

stood and watched the giant of the

bottoms. It seemed to be fighting so hard

to keep standing. Several times I thought it

would fall, but in a miraculous way it

would pull itself back into perfect

balance.

The wind itself seemed to be angry at

the big tree’s stubborn resistance. It

growled and moaned as it pushed harder

against the wavering top. With one final

grinding, creaking sigh, the big sycamore

started down. It picked up momentum as

the heavy weight of the overbalanced top

dove for the ground. A small ash was

smothered by its huge bulk. There was a

lighting-like crack as its trunk snapped.

In its downward plunge, the huge limbs

stripped the branches from the smaller

trees. A log-sized one knifed through the

top of a water oak. Splintered limbs flew

skyward and rained out over the bottoms.

With a cyclone roar, the big tree crashed

to the ground, and then silence settled over

the bottoms.

Out of the broken, twisted, tangled mass

streaked a brown furry ball. I turned my

dogs loose and started screaming at the

top of my voice, “Get him, Dan, get him.”

In his eagerness, Old Dan ran head on

into a bur oak tree. He sat down and with

his deep voice told the river bottoms that

he had been hurt.

It was Little Ann who caught the coon. I

heard the ringtail squall when she grabbed

him. Scared half to death, I snatched up a

club and ran to help her.

The coon was all over her. He climbed

up on her head, growling, slashing,

ripping, and tearing. Yelping with pain,

she shook him off and he streaked for the

river. I thought surely he was going to get

away. At the very edge of the river’s bank,

she caught him again.

I was trying hard to get in a lick with

my club but couldn’t for fear of hitting

Little Ann. Through the tears in my eyes I

saw the red blurry form of Old Dan sail

into the fight. He was a mad hound. His

anger at the bur oak tree was taken out on

the coon.

They stretched Old Ringy out between

them and pinned him to the ground. It was

savage and brutal. I could hear the dying

squalls of the coon and the deep growls of

Old Dan. In a short time it was all over.

With sorrow in my heart, I stood and

watched while my dogs worried the

lifeless body. Little Ann was satisfied

first. I had to scold Old Dan to make him

stop.

Carrying the coon by a hind leg, I

walked back to the big tree for my ax.

Before leaving for home, I stood and

looked at the fallen sycamore. I should

have felt proud over the job I had done,

but for some reason I couldn’t. I knew I

would miss the giant of the bottoms, for it

had played a wonderful part in my life. I

thought of the hours I had whiled away

staring at its beauty and how hard it had

been finding the right name for it.

“I’m sorry,” I said. “I didn’t want to cut

you down, but I had to. I hope you can

understand.”

I was a proud boy as I walked along in

the twilight of the evening. I felt so good

even my sore hands had stopped hurting.

What boy wouldn’t have been proud?

Hadn’t my little hounds treed and killed

their first coon? Along about then I

decided I was a full-fledged coon hunter.

Nearing our house, I saw the whole

family had come out on the porch. My

sisters came running, staring wide-eyed at

the dead coon.

Laughing, Papa said, “Well, I see you

got him.”

“I sure did, Papa,” I said. I held the

coon up for all to see. Mama took one

look at the lifeless body and winced.

“Billy,” she said, “when I heard that big

tree fall, it scared me half to death. I

didn’t know but what it had fallen on

you.”

“Aw, Mama,” I said, “I was safe. Why,

I backed way off to one side. It couldn’t

have fallen on me.”

Mama just shook her head. “I don’t

know,” she said. “Some times I wonder if

all mothers have to go through this.”

“Come on,” Papa said, “I’ll help you

skin it.”

While we were tacking the hide on the

smokehouse wall, I asked Papa if he had

noticed any wind blowing that evening.

He thought a bit and said, “No, I don’t

believe I did. I’ve been out all day and

I’m pretty sure I haven’t noticed any wind.

Why did you ask?”

“Oh, I don’t know, Papa,” I said, “but I

thought something strange happened down

in the bottoms this afternoon.”

“I’m afraid I don’t understand,” said

Papa. “What do you mean, ‘something

strange happened?”

I told him about how my hands had

gotten so sore I couldn’t chop any more,

and how I had asked for strength to finish

the job.

“Well, what’s so strange about that?”

he asked.

“I don’t know,” I said, “but I didn’t

chop the big tree down. The wind blew it

over.”

“Why that’s nothing,” Papa said. “I’ve

seen that happen a lot of times.”

“It wasn’t just the wind,” I said. “It was

the way it blew. It didn’t touch another

tree in the bottoms. I know because I

looked around. The big tree was the only

one touched by the wind. Do you think

God heard my prayer? Do you think He

helped me?”

Papa looked at the ground and

scratched his head. In a sober voice, he

said, “I don’t know, Billy. I’m afraid I

can’t answer that. You must remember the

big sycamore was the tallest tree in the

bottoms. Maybe it was up there high

enough to catch the wind where the others

couldn’t. No, I’m afraid I can’t help you

there. You’ll have to decide for yourself.”

It wasn’t hard for me to decide. I was

firmly convinced that I had been helped.

X

MAMA MADE ME A CAP OUT OF MY FIRST COON HIDE.

I WAS as proud of it as Papa would’ve

been if someone had given him a dozen

Missouri mules. Mama said afterwards

that she wished she hadn’t made it for me

because, in some way, wearing that cap

must’ve affected my mind. I went coon

crazy.

I was out after the ringtails every night.

About the only time I didn’t go hunting

was when the weather was bad, and even

then Mama all but had to hog-tie me.

What wonderful nights they were,

running like a deer through the thick

timber of the bottoms, tearing my way

through stands of wild cane, climbing over

drifts,

and

jumping

logs,

running,

screaming, and yelling, “Who-e-e-e, get

him, boy, get him,” following the voices

of my little hounds.

It wasn’t too hard for a smart old coon

to fool Old Dan, but there were none that

prowled the riverbanks that could fool my

Little Ann.

As Grandpa had predicted, the price of

coonskins jumped sky-high. A good-size

hide was worth from four to ten dollars,

depending on the grade and quality.

I kept the side of our smokehouse

plastered with hides. Of course I would

spread them out a little to cover more

space. I always stretched them on the side

facing the road, never on the back side. I

wanted everyone in the country to see

them.

The money earned from my furs was

turned over to my father. I didn’t care

about it. I had what I wanted—my dogs. I

supposed that Papa was saving it for

something because I never saw anything

new turn up around our home, but, like any

young boy, I wasn’t bothered by it and I

asked no questions.

My whole life was wrapped up in my

dogs. Everywhere I went they went along.

There was only one place I didn’t want

them to go with me and that was to

Grandpa’s store. Other dogs were always

there, and it seemed as if they all wanted

to jump on Old Dan.

It got so about the only time I went to

see my grandfather was when I had a

bundle of fur to take to the store. This was

always a problem. In every way I could, I

would try to slip away from my dogs.

Sometimes I swore that they could read

my mind. It made no difference what I

tried; I couldn’t fool them.

One time I was sure I had outsmarted

them. The day before I was to make one of

my trips I took my furs out to the barn and

hid them. The next morning I hung around

the house for a while, and then

nonchalantly whistled my way out to the

barn. I climbed up in the loft and peeked

through a crack. I could see them lying in

front of their doghouse. They weren’t even

looking my way.

Taking my furs, I sneaked out through a

back door and, walking like a tomcat, I

made it to the timber. I climbed a small

dogwood tree and looked back. They

were still there and didn’t seem to know

what I’d done.

Feeling just about as smart as Sherlock

Holmes, I headed for the store. I was

walking along singing my lungs out when

they came tearing out of the underbrush,

wiggling and twisting, and tickled to death

to be with me. At first I was mad but one

look at dancing Little Ann and all was

forgiven. I sat down on my bundle of fur

and laughed till I hurt all over. I could

scold them a little but I could no more

have whipped one of them than I could

have kissed a girl. After all a boy just

doesn’t whip his dogs.

Grandpa always counted my furs

carefully and marked something down on

a piece of paper. I’d never seen him do

this with other hunters and it got the best

of my curiosity. One day while he was

writing I asked him, “Why do you do that,

Grandpa?” He looked at me over his

glasses and said kind of sharp, “Never

mind. I have my reasons.”

When Grandpa talked to me like that I

didn’t push things any farther. Besides, it

didn’t make any difference to me if he

marked on every piece of paper in the

store.

I always managed to make my trips on

Saturdays as that was “coon hunters’ ”

day. I didn’t have to stand around on the

outside of the circle any more and listen to

the coon hunters. I’d get right up in the

middle and say my piece with the rest of

them.

I didn’t have to tell any whoppers for

some of the things my dogs did were

almost unbelievable anyhow. Oh, I guess I

did make things a little bigger than they

actually were but I never did figure a coon

hunter told honest-to-goodness lies. He

just kind of stretched things a little.

I could hold those coon hunters

spellbound with some of my hunting tales.

Grandpa would never say anything while I

was telling my stories. He just puttered

around the store with a silly little grin on

his face. Once in a while when I got too

far off the beaten path, he would come

around and cram a bar of soap in my

pocket. My face would get all red, I’d cut

my story short, fly out the door, and head

for home.

The coon hunters were always kidding

me about my dogs. Some of the remarks I

heard made me fighting mad. “I never saw

hounds so small, but I guess they are

hounds, at least they look like it.” “I don’t

believe Little Ann is half as smart as he

says she is. She’s so little those old coons

think she’s a rabbit. I bet she sneaks right

up on them before they realize she’s a

dog.” “Some of these nights a big old coon

is going to carry her off to his den and

raise some little coon puppies.”

I always took their kidding with a smile

on my face, but it made my blood boil like

the water in Mama’s teakettle. I had one

way of shutting them up. “Let’s all go in

the store,” I’d say, “and see who has the

most hides in there.”

It was true that my dogs were small,

especially Little Ann. She could walk

under an ordinary hound; in fact, she was

a regular midget. If it had not been for her

long ears, no one could have told that she

was a hound. Her actions weren’t those of

a hunting hound. She was constantly

playing. She would play with our chickens

and young calves, with a piece of paper or

a corncob. What my little girl lacked in

size, she made up in sweetness. She could

make friends with a tomcat.

Old Dan was just the opposite. He

strutted around with a belligerent and

tough attitude. Although he wasn’t a tall

dog, he was heavy. His body was long and

his chest broad and thick. His legs were

short, big, and solid. The muscles in his

body were hard and knotty. When he

walked, they would twist and jerk under

the skin.

He was a friendly dog. There were no

strangers to him. He loved everyone. Yet

he was a strange dog. He would not hunt

with another hound, other than Little Ann,

or another hunter, not even my father. The

strangest thing about Old Dan was that he

would not hunt, even with me, unless

Little Ann was with him. I found this out

the first night I tried it.

Little Ann had cut the pad of her right

foot on a sharp jagged flint rock. It was a

nasty cut. I made a little boot of leather

and put it on her wounded foot. To keep

her from following me, I locked her in the

corncrib.

Two nights later I decided to take Old

Dan hunting for a while. He followed me

down

to

the

river

bottoms

and

disappeared in the thick timber. I waited

and waited for him to strike a trail.

Nothing happened. After about two hours,

I called to him. He didn’t come. I called

and called. Disgusted, I gave up and went

home.

Coming up through the barn lot, I saw

him rolled up in a ball on the ground in

front of the corncrib. I immediately

understood. I walked over and opened the

door. He jumped up in the crib, smelled

Little Ann’s foot, twisted around in the

shucks, and lay down by her side. As he

looked at me, I read this message in his

friendly gray eyes, “You could’ve done

this a long time ago.”

I never did know if Little Ann would

hunt by herself or not. I am sure she would

have, for she was a smart and

understanding dog, but I never tried to find

out.

Little Ann was my sisters’ pet. They

rubbed and scratched and petted her. They

would take her down to the creek and give

her baths. She loved it all.

If Mama wanted a chicken caught, she

would call Little Ann. She would run the

chicken down and hold it with her paws

until Mama came. Not one feather would

be harmed. Mama tried Old Dan once.

Before she got the chicken, there wasn’t

much left but the feathers.

By some strange twist of nature, Little

Ann was destined to go through life

without being a mother. Perhaps it was

because she was stunted in growth, or

maybe because she was the runt in a large

litter. That may have had something to do

with it.

During the fur season, November

through February, I was given complete

freedom from work. Many times when I

came home, the sun was high in the sky.

After each hunt, I always took care of my

dogs. The flint rocks and saw briers were

hard on their feet. With a bottle of

peroxide and a can of salve I would

doctor their wounds.

I never knew what to expect from Old

Dan. I never saw a coon hound so

determined or one that could get into so

many predicaments. More than one time, it

would have been the death of him if it

hadn’t been for smart Little Ann.

One night, not long after I had entered

the bottoms, my dogs struck the trail of an

old boar coon. He was a smart old fellow

and had a sackful of tricks. He crossed the

river time after time. Finally, swimming to

the middle and staying in the swift current,

he swam downstream.

Knowing he would have to come out

somewhere, my dogs split up. Old Dan

took the right side. Little Ann worked the

other side. I came out of the bottoms onto

a gravel bar and stood and watched them

in the moonlight.

Little Ann worked downriver, and then

she came up. I saw her when she passed

me going up the bank, sniffing and

searching for the trail. She came back to

me. I patted her head, scratched her ears,

and talked to her. She kept staring across

the river to where Old Dan was searching

for the trail.

She waded in and swam across to help

him. I knew that the coon had not come out

of the river on her side. If he had, she

would have found the trail. I walked up to

a riffle, pulled off my shoes, and waded

across.

My dogs worked the riverbank, up and

down. They circled far out into the

bottoms. I could hear the loud snuffing of

Old Dan. He was bewildered and mad. I

was getting a thrill from it all, as I had

never seen them fooled like this.

Old Dan gave up on his side, piled into

the river, and swam across to the side

Little Ann had worked. I knew that it was

useless for him to do that.

I was on the point of giving up, calling

them to me, and going elsewhere to hunt,

when I heard the bawl of Little Ann. I

couldn’t believe what I heard. She wasn’t

bawling on a trail. She was sounding the

tree bark. I hurried down the bank.

There was a loud splash. I saw Old

Dan swimming back. By this time, Little

Ann was really singing a song. In the

bright moonlight, I could see Old Dan

clearly. His powerful front legs were

churning the water.

Then I saw a sight that makes a hunter’s

heart swell with pride. Still swimming,

Old Dan raised his head high out of the

water and bawled. He couldn’t wait until

he reached the bank to tell Little Ann he

was coming. From far out in the river he

told her.

Reaching the shallows, he plowed out

of the river onto a sand bar. Not even

taking time to shake the water from his

body, again he raised his head and

bawled, and tore out down the bank.

In a trot, I followed, whooping to let

them know I was coming. Before I

reached the tree, Old Dan’s deep voice

was making the timber shake.

The tree was a large birch, standing

right on the bank of the river. The swift

current had eaten away at the footing,

causing it to lean. The lower branches of

the tree dangled in the water.

I saw how the smart old coon had

pulled his trick. Coming in toward the

bank from midstream, he had caught the

dangling limbs and climbed up. Exhausted

from the long swim, he stayed there in the

birch thinking he had outsmarted my dogs.

I couldn’t understand how Little Ann had

found him.

It was impossible to fall the tree toward

the bottoms. It was too much off balance. I

did the next best thing. I cut a long elder

switch. Unbuckling one of my suspenders,

I tied it to the end and climbed the tree.

The coon was sitting in a fork of a limb.

Taking my switch, I whopped him a good

one and out he came. He sailed out over

the river. With a loud splash, he hit the

water and swam for the other side. My

dogs jumped off the bank after him. They

were no match against his expert

swimming. On reaching the other bank, he

ran downriver.

Climbing down out of the tree, I picked

up my ax and lantern, and trotted down to

another riffle and waded across. I could

tell by the bawling of my dogs, they were

close to the coon. He would have to climb

a tree, or be caught on the ground.

All at once their voices stopped. I stood

still and waited for them to bawl treed.

Nothing happened. Thinking the coon had

taken to the river again, I waited to give

them time to reach the opposite bank. I

waited and waited. I could hear nothing.

By then I knew he had not crossed over. I

thought perhaps they had caught him on the

ground. I hurried on.

I came to a point where a slough of

crystal-clear water ran into the river. On

the other side was a bluff. I could hear one

of my dogs over there. As I watched and

waited, I heard a dog jump in the water. It

was Little Ann. She swam across and

came up to me. Staying with me for just a

second, she jumped in the slough and

swam back to the other side.

I could hear her sniffing and whining. I

couldn’t figure out where Old Dan was.

By squatting down and holding the lantern

high over my head, I could dimly see the

opposite bank. Little Ann was running up

and down. I noticed she always stayed in

one place of about twenty-five yards,

never leaving that small area.

She ran down to the water’s edge and

stared out into the slough. The horrible

thought came that Old Dan had drowned. I

knew a big coon was capable of drowning

a dog in water by climbing on his head

and forcing him under.

As fast as I could run, I circled the

slough, climbed up over the bluff, and

came down to where Little Ann was. She

was hysterical, running up and down the

bank and whining.

I tied my lantern on a long pole, held it

out over the water, and looked for Old

Dan’s body. I could see clearly in the

clear spring waters, but I couldn’t see my

dog anywhere. I sat down on the bank,

buried my face in my hands, and cried. I

was sure he was gone.

Several minutes passed, and all that

time Little Ann had never stopped.

Running here and there along the bank, she

kept sniffing and whining.

I heard when she started digging. I

looked around. She was ten feet from the

water’s edge. I got up and went over to

her. She was digging in a small hole about

the size of a big apple. It was the air hole

for a muskrat den.

I pulled Little Ann away from the hole,

knelt down, and put my ear to it. I could

hear something, and feel a vibration in the

ground. It was an eerie sound and seemed

to be coming from far away. I listened.

Finally I understood what the noise was.

It was the voice of Old Dan. Little Ann

had opened the hole up enough with her

digging so his voice could be heard

faintly. In some way he had gotten into that

old muskrat den.

I knew that down under the bank, in the

water, the entrance to the den could be

found. Rolling up my sleeve, I tried to find

it with my hand. I had no luck. It was too

far down.

There was only one thing to do. Leaving

my ax and lantern, I ran for home. Picking

up a long-handled shovel, I hurried back.

The sun was high in the sky before I had

dug Old Dan out. He was a sight to see,

nothing but mud from the tip of his nose to

the end of his tail. I held on to his collar

and led him down to the river to wash him

off. The water there was much warmer

than the cold spring water of the slough.

After washing him, I turned him loose.

Right back to the hole he ran. Little Ann

was already digging. I knew the coon was

still there. Working together, we dug him

out.

After the coon was killed, I saw what

had made him so smart. His right front

foot was twisted and shriveled. At one

time he must have been caught in a trap

and had pulled himself free. He was an

old coon. His face was almost white. He

was big and heavy and had beautiful fur.

Tired, muddy, wet, and hungry, I started

for home.

I’ve often wondered how Old Dan got

into that old muskrat den. Perhaps there

was another entrance I had overlooked.

I’ll never know.

One night, far back in the mountains, in

a place called “The Cyclone Timber,”

Old Dan really pulled a good one.

Many years before my time, a terrible

cyclone had ripped its way through the

mountains, leaving its scar in the form of

fallen timber, twisted and snarled. The

path of the cyclone was several miles

wide and several miles long. It was

wonderful place to hunt as it abounded

with game.

My dogs had struck the trail of a coon

about an hour before. They had really

been warming him up. I knew it was about

time for him to take up a tree, and sure

enough, I heard the deep voice of Old Dan

telling the world he had a coon up a tree.

I was trotting along, going to them,

when his voice stopped. I could hear

Little Ann, but not Old Dan. I wondered

why, and was a little scared, for I just

knew something had happened. Then I

heard his voice. It seemed louder than it

had been before. I felt much better.

When I came up to the tree I thought

Little Ann had treed Old Dan. She was

sitting on her haunches staring up and

bawling the tree bark. There, a good

fifteen feet from the ground, with his hind

legs planted firmly in the center of a big

limb, and his front feet against the trunk of

the tree, stood Old Dan, bawling for all he

was worth.

Above him some eight or nine feet was

a baby coon. I was glad it was a young

one, for if it had been an old one, he

would have jumped out. Old Dan would

have followed, and he surely would have

broken all of his legs.

From where I was standing, I could see

it was impossible for Old Dan to have

climbed the tree. It was dead and more of

an old snag than a tree, with limbs that

were crooked and twisted. The bark had

rotted away and fallen off, leaving the

trunk bare and slick as glass. It was a

good ten feet up to the first limb. I

couldn’t figure out how Old Dan had

climbed that tree. There had to be a

solution somewhere.

Walking around to the other side, I saw

how he had accomplished his feat. There

in the bottom was a large hole. The old

tree was hollow. Stepping back, I looked

up and could see another hole, which had

been hidden from me because of Old

Dan’s body.

He had simply crawled into the hole at

the bottom, climbed up the hollow of the

tree, and worked his way out on the limb.

In some way he had turned around and

reared up, placing his front feet against the

trunk.

There he was. I didn’t know what to do.

I couldn’t cut the tree down and I was

afraid to climb it for fear I would scare

the coon into jumping out. If he did, Old

Dan would jump, too, and break his legs.

I ran plan after plan around in my mind.

None would work. I finally came to the

conclusion that I had to climb the tree and

get ahold of that crazy dog. I blew out my

lantern, pulled off my shoes and socks,

and started shinnying up the tree. I prayed

that the coon wouldn’t jump out.

Inching along, being as quiet as I could,

I made it up to Old Dan and grabbed his

collar. I sat down on the limb, and held

him tight. He would bawl now and then,

and all but burst my eardrums. I couldn’t

drop him to the ground, and I couldn’t

climb down with him. I couldn’t sit there

on that limb and hold him all night. I

would be no better off when daylight

came.

Glancing at the hole by my side gave

me the solution to my problem. I thought,

“If he came out of this hole, he can go

back in it.”

That was the way I got my dog down

from the tree. This had its problems, too.

In the first place, Old Dan didn’t want to

be put in the hole head first. By scolding,

pushing, shoving, and squeezing, I finally

got him started on his way.

Like a fool, I sat there on the limb,

waiting to see him come out at the bottom,

and come out he did. Turning around,

bawling as he did, right back in the hole

he went. There was nothing I could do but

sit and wait. I understood why his voice

had stopped for a while. He just took time

out to climb a tree.

Putting my ear to the hole, I could hear

him coming. Grunting and clawing, up he

came. I helped him out of the hole, turned

him around, and crammed him back in.

That time I wasn’t too gentle with my

work. I was tired of sitting on the limb,

and my bare feet were getting cold.

I started down the same time he did. He

beat me down. Looking over my shoulder,

I saw him turn around and head back for

the hole. I wasn’t far from the ground so I

let go. The flint rocks didn’t feel too good

to my feet when I landed.

I jumped to the hole just in time to see

the tip end of his long tail disappearing. I

grabbed it. Holding on with one hand, I

worked his legs down with my other, and

pulled him out. I stopped his tree-climbing

by cramming rocks and chunks into the

hole.

How the coon stayed in the tree, I’ll

never know, but stay he did. With a well-

aimed rock, I scared him out. Old Dan

satisfied his lust to kill.

I started for home. I’d had all the

hunting I wanted for that night.

XI

I HAD OFTEN WONDERED WHAT OLD DAN WOULD DO

IF LITTLE Ann got into some kind of a

predicament. One night I got my answer.

For several days a northern blizzard

had been blowing. It was a bad one. The

temperature dropped down to ten below.

The storm started with a slow cold drizzle

and then sleet. When the wind started

blowing, everything froze, leaving the

ground as slick as glass.

Trapped indoors, I was as nervous as a

fish out of water. I told Mama I guessed it

was just going to storm all winter.

She laughed and said, “I don’t think it

will, but it does look like it will last for a

while.”

She ruffled up my hair and kissed me

between the eyes. This did rile me up. I

didn’t like to be kissed like that. It seemed

that I could practically rub my skin off and

still feel it, all wet and sticky, and kind of

burning.

Sometime on the fifth night, the storm

blew itself out and it snowed about three

inches. The next morning I went out to my

doghouse. Scraping the snow away from

the two-way door, I stuck my head in. It

was as warm as an oven. I got my face

washed all over by Little Ann. Old Dan’s

tail thumped out a tune on the wall.

I told them to be ready because we

were going hunting that night. I knew the

old ringtails would be hungry and stirring

for they had been denned up during the

storm.

That evening as I was leaving the

house, Papa said, “Billy, be careful

tonight. It’s slick down under the snow,

and it would be easy to twist an ankle or

break a leg.”

I told him I would and that I wasn’t

going far, just down back of our fields in

the bottoms.

“Well, anyway,” he said, “be careful.

There’ll be no moon tonight and you’re

going to see some fog next to the river.”

Walking through our fields I saw my

father was right about it being slick and

dark. Several times I slipped and sat

down. I couldn’t see anything beyond the

glow of my lantern, but I wasn’t worried.

My light was a good one, and Mama had

insisted that I make two little leather

pouches to cover the blades of my ax.

Just before I reached the timber, Old

Dan shook the snow from the underbrush

with his deep voice. I stopped and

listened. He bawled again. The deep bass

tones rolled around under the tall

sycamores, tore their way out of the thick

timber, traveled out over the fields, and

slammed up against the foothills. There

they seemed to break up and die away in

the mountains.

Old Dan was working the trail slowly

and I knew why. He would never line out

until Little Ann was running by his side. I

thought she would never get there. When

she did, her beautiful voice made the

blood pound in my temples. I felt the

excitement of the hunt as it ate its way into

my body. Taking a deep breath, I reared

back and whooped as loud as I could.

The coon ran upriver for a way and

then, cutting out of the bottoms, he headed

for the mountains. I stood and listened

until their voices went out of hearing.

Slipping and sliding, I started in the

direction I had last heard them. About

halfway to the foothills I heard them

coming back.

Somewhere in the rugged mountains, the

coon had turned and headed toward the

river. It was about time for him to play out

a few tricks and I was wondering what he

would do. I knew it would be hard for him

to hide his trail with snow on the ground,

and I realized later that the smart old coon

knew this, too.

As the voices of my dogs grew louder, I

could tell that they were coming straight

toward me. Once I started to blow out my

lantern, thinking that maybe I could see

them when they crossed our field, but I

realized I didn’t stand a chance of seeing

the race in the skunk-black night.

Down out of the mountains they brought

him, singing a hound-dog song on his

heels. The coon must have scented me, or

seen my lantern. He cut to my right and ran

between our house and me. I heard

screaming and yelling from my sisters. My

father started whooping.

I knew my whole family was out on the

porch listening to the beautiful voices of

my little red hounds. I felt as tall as the

tallest sycamore on the riverbank. I yelled

as loud as I could. Again I heard the

squealing of my sisters and the shouts of

my father.

The deep “Ou-ou-ou’s” of Old Dan and

the sharp “Aw-aw-aw-aw’s” of Little Ann

bored a hole in the inky-black night. The

vibrations rolled and quivered in the icy

silence.

The coon was heading for the river. I

could tell my dogs were crowding him,

and wondered if he’d make it to the water.

I was hoping he wouldn’t, for I didn’t

want to wade the cold water unless I had

to do it.

I figured the smart old coon had a

reason for turning and coming back to the

river and wondered what trick he had in

mind. I remembered something my

grandfather had told me. He said, “Never

underestimate the cunning of an old river

coon. When the nights are dark and the

ground is frozen and slick, they can pull

some mean tricks on a hound. Sometimes

the tricks can be fatal.”

I was halfway through the fog-covered

bottoms when the voices of my dogs

stopped. I stood still, waited, and listened.

A cold silence settled over the bottoms. I

could hear the snap and crack of sap-

frozen limbs. From far back in the flinty

hills, the long, lonesome howl of a timber

wolf floated down in the silent night.

Across the river I heard a cow moo. I

knew the sound was coming from the

Lowery place.

Not being able to hear the voices of my

dogs gave me an uncomfortable feeling. I

whooped and waited for one of them to

bawl. As I stood waiting I realized

something was different in the bottoms.

Something was missing.

I wasn’t worried about my dogs. I

figured that the coon had pulled some trick

and sooner or later they would unravel the

trail. But the feeling that something was

just not right had me worried.

I whooped several times but still could

get no answer. Stumbling, slipping, and

sliding, I started on. Reaching the river, I

saw it was frozen over. I realized what my

strange uneasy feeling was. I had not been

able to hear the sound of the water.

As I stood listening I heard a gurgling

out in the middle of the stream. The river

wasn’t frozen all the way across. The still

eddy waters next to the banks had frozen,

but out in the middle, where the current

was swift, the water was running, leaving

a trough in the ice pack. The gurgling

sound I had heard was the swift current as

it sucked its way through the channel.

The last time I had heard my dogs they

were downstream from me. I walked on,

listening.

I hadn’t gone far when I heard Old Dan.

What I heard froze the blood in my veins.

He wasn’t bawling on a trail or giving the

tree bark. It was one, long, continuous cry.

In his deep voice there seemed to be a

pleading cry for help. Scared, worried,

and with my heart beating like a churn

dasher, I started toward the sound.

I almost passed him but with another

cry he let me know where he was. He was

out on the ice pack. I couldn’t see him for

the fog. I called to him and he answered

with a low whine. Again I called his

name. This time he came to me.

He wasn’t the same dog. His tail was

between his legs and his head was bowed

down. He stopped about seven feet from

me. Sitting down on the ice, he raised his

head and howled the most mournful cry I

had ever heard. Turning around, he trotted

back out on the ice and disappeared in the

fog.

I knew something had happened to

Little Ann. I called her name. She

answered with a pleading cry. Although I

couldn’t see her, I guessed what had

happened. The coon had led them to the

river. Running out on the ice, he had

leaped across the trough. My dogs, hot on

the trail, had followed. Old Dan, a more

powerful dog than Little Ann, had made

his leap. Little Ann had not made it. Her

small feet had probably slipped on the

slick ice and she had fallen into the icy

waters. Old Dan, seeing the fate of his

little friend, had quit the chase and come

back to help her. The smart old coon had

pulled his trick, and a deadly one it was.

I had to do something. She would never

be able to get out by herself. It was only a

matter of time until her body would be

paralyzed by the freezing water.

Laying my ax down, I held my lantern

out in front of me and stepped out on the

ice. It started cracking and popping. I

jumped back to the bank. Although it was

thick enough to hold the light weight of my

dogs, it would never hold me.

Little Ann started whining and begging

for help. I went all to pieces and started

crying. Something had to be done and

done quickly or my little dog was lost. I

thought of running home for a rope or for

my father, but I knew she couldn’t last

until I got back. I was desperate. It was

impossible for me to swim in the freezing

water. I wouldn’t last for a minute. She

cried again, begging for the one thing I

couldn’t give her, help.

I thought, “If only I could see her maybe

I could figure out some way I could help.”

Looking at my lantern gave me an idea.

I ran up the bank about thirty feet, turned,

and looked back. I could see the light, not

well, but enough for what I had in mind. I

grabbed my lantern and ax and ran for the

bottoms.

I was looking for a stand of wild cane.

After what seemed like ages, I found it.

With the longest one I could find, I hurried

back. After it was trimmed and the limber

end cut off, I hung the lantern by the handle

on the end of it and started easing it out on

the ice.

I saw Old Dan first. He was sitting

close to the edge of the trough, looking

down. Then I saw her. I groaned at her

plight. All I could see was her head and

her small front paws. Her claws were

spread out and digging into the ice. She

knew if she ever lost that hold she was

gone.

Old Dan raised his head and howled.

Hound though he was, he knew it was the

end of the trail for his little pal.

I wanted to get my light as close to

Little Ann as I could, but my pole was a

good eight feet short. Setting the lantern

down, I eased the pole from under the

handle, I thought, “I’m no better off than I

was before. In fact I’m worse off. Now I

can see when the end comes.”

Little Ann cried again. I saw her claws

slip on the ice. Her body settled lower in

the water. Old Dan howled and started

fidgeting. He knew the end was close.

I didn’t exactly know when I started out

toward my dog. I had taken only two steps

when the ice broke. I twisted my body and

fell toward the bank. Just as my hand

closed on a root I thought my feet touched

bottom, but I wasn’t sure. As I pulled

myself out I felt the numbing cold creep

over my legs.

It looked so hopeless. There didn’t

seem to be any way I could save her.

At the edge of the water stood a large

sycamore. I got behind it, anything to blot

out that heartbreaking scene. Little Ann,

thinking I had deserted her, started crying.

I couldn’t stand it.

I opened my mouth to call Old Dan. I

wanted to tell him to come on and we’d go

home as there was nothing we could do.

The words just wouldn’t come out. I

couldn’t utter a sound. I lay my face

against the icy cold bark of the sycamore.

I thought of the prayer I had said when I

had asked God to help me get two hound

pups. I knelt down and sobbed out a

prayer. I asked for a miracle which would

save the life of my little dog. I promised

all the things that a young boy could if

only He would help me.

Still saying my prayer and making

promises, I heard a sharp metallic sound. I

jumped up and stepped away from the

tree. I was sure the noise I heard was

made by a rattling chain on the front end of

a boat.

I shouted as loud as I could. “Over

here. I need help. My dog is drowning.”

I waited for an answer. All I could hear

were the cries of Little Ann.

Again I hollered. “Over here. Over on

the bank. Can you see my light? I need

help. Please hurry.”

I held my breath waiting for an

answering shout. I shivered from the

freezing cold of my wet shoes and

overalls. A straining silence settled over

the river. A feathery rustle swished by in

the blackness. A flock of low-flying ducks

had been disturbed by my loud shouts. I

strained my ears for some sound. Now and

then I could hear the lapping slap of the

ice-cold water as it swirled its way

through the trough.

I glanced to Little Ann. She was still

holding on but I saw her paws were

almost at the edge. I knew her time was

short.

I couldn’t figure out what I had heard.

The sound was made by metal striking

metal, but what was it? What could have

caused it?

I looked at my ax. It couldn’t have made

the sound as it was too close to me. The

noise had come from out in the river.

When I looked at my lantern I knew that

it had made the strange sound. I had left

the handle standing straight up when I had

taken the pole away. Now it was down.

For some unknown reason the stiff wire

handle had twisted in the sockets and

dropped. As it had fallen it had struck the

metal frame, making the sharp metallic

sound I had heard.

As I stared at the yellow glow of my

light, the last bit of hope faded away. I

closed my eyes, intending to pray again

for the help I so desperately needed. Then

like a blinding red flash the message of the

lantern bored its way into my brain. There

was my miracle. There was the way to

save my little dog. In the metallic sound I

had heard were my instructions. They

were so plain I couldn’t help but

understand them. The bright yellow flame

started flickering and dancing. It seemed

to be saying, “Hurry. You know what to

do.”

Faster than I had ever moved in my life

I went to work. With a stick I measured

the water in the hole where my feet had

broken through the ice. I was right. My

foot had touched bottom. Eighteen inches

down I felt the soft mud.

With my pole I fished the lantern back

to the bank. I took the handle off,

straightened it out, and bent a hook in one

end. With one of my shoelaces I tied the

wire to the end of the cane pole. I left the

hook sticking out about six inches beyond

the end of it.

I started shouting encouragement to

Little Ann. I told her to hang on and not to

give up for I was going to save her. She

answered with a low cry.

With the hook stuck in one of the

ventilating holes in the top of my light, I

lifted it back out on the ice and set it

down. After a little wiggling and pushing,

I worked the hook loose and laid the pole

down.

I took off my clothes, picked up my ax,

and stepped down into the hole in the icy

water. It came to my knees. Step by step,

breaking the ice with my ax, I waded out.

The water came up to my hips, and then

to my waist. The cold bite of it took my

breath away. I felt my body grow numb. I

couldn’t feel my feet at all but I knew they

were moving. When the water reached my

armpits I stopped and worked my pole

toward Little Ann. Stretching my arms as

far out as I could, I saw I was still a foot

short. Closing my eyes and gritting my

teeth, I moved on. The water reached my

chin.

I was close enough. I started hooking at

the collar of Little Ann. Time after time I

felt the hook almost catch. I saw I was

fishing on a wrong angle. She had settled

so low in the water I couldn’t reach her

collar. Raising my arms above my head so

the pole would be on a slant I kept

hooking and praying. The seconds ticked

by. I strained for one more inch. The

muscles in my arms grew numb from the

weight of the pole.

Little Ann’s claws slipped again. I

thought she was gone. At the very edge of

the ice, she caught again. All I could see

now were her small red paws and her

nose and eyes.

By Old Dan’s actions I could tell he

understood and wanted to help. He ran

over close to my pole and started digging

at the ice. I whopped him with the cane.

That was the only time in my life I ever hit

my dog. I had to get him out of the way so

I could see what I was doing.

Just when I thought my task was

impossible, I felt the hook slide under the

tough leather. It was none too soon.

As gently as I could I dragged her over

the rim of the ice. At first I thought she

was dead. She didn’t move. Old Dan

started whining and licking her face and

ears. She moved her head. I started talking

to her. She made an effort to stand but

couldn’t. Her muscles were paralyzed and

the blood had long since ceased to flow.

At the movement of Little Ann, Old Dan

threw a fit. He started barking and

jumping. His long red tail fanned the air.

Still holding onto my pole, I tried to

take a step backward. My feet wouldn’t

move. A cold gripping fear came over me.

I thought my legs were frozen. I made

another effort to lift my leg. It moved. I

realized that my feet were stuck in the soft

muddy bottom.

I started backing out, dragging the body

of my little dog. I couldn’t feel the pole in

my hands. When my feet touched the icy

bank, I couldn’t feel that either. All the

feeling in my body was gone.

I wrapped Little Ann in my coat and

hurried into my clothes. With the pole I

fished my light back.

Close by was a large drift. I climbed up

on top of it and dug a hole down through

the ice and snow until I reached the dry

limbs. I poured half of the oil in my

lantern down into the hole and dropped in

a match. In no time I had a roaring fire.

I laid Little Ann close to the warm heat

and went to work. Old Dan washed her

head with his warm red tongue while I

massaged and rubbed her body.

I could tell by her cries when the blood

started circulating. Little by little her

strength came back. I stood her on her feet

and started walking her. She was weak

and wobbly but I knew she would live. I

felt much better and breathed a sigh of

relief.

After drying myself out the best I could,

I took the lantern handle from the pole,

bent it back to its original position, and

put it back on the lantern. Holding the light

out in front of me, I looked at it. The bright

metal gleamed in the firelight glow.

I started talking to it. I said, “Thanks,

old lantern, more than you’ll ever know.

I’ll always take care of you. Your globe

will always be clean and there’ll never be

any rust or dirt on your frame.”

I knew if it had not been for the miracle

of the lantern, my little dog would have

met her death on that night. Her grave

would have been the cold icy waters of

the Illinois River.

Out in the river I could hear the cold

water gurgling in the icy trough. It seemed

to be angry. It hissed and growled as it

tore its way through the channel. I

shuddered to think of what could have

happened.

Before I left for home, I walked back to

the sycamore tree. Once again I said a

prayer, but this time the words were

different. I didn’t ask for a miracle. In

every way a young boy could, I said

“thanks.” My second prayer wasn’t said

with just words. All of my heart and soul

was in it.

On my way home I decided not to say

anything to my mother and father about

Little Ann’s accident. I knew it would

scare Mama and she might stop my

hunting.

Reaching our house, I didn’t hang the

lantern in its usual place. I took it to my

room and set it in a corner with the handle

standing up.

The next morning I started sneezing and

came down with a terrible cold. I told

Mama I had gotten my feet wet. She

scolded me a little and started doctoring

me.

For three days and nights I stayed home.

All this time I kept checking the handle of

the lantern. My sisters shook the house

from the roof to the floor with their

playing and romping, but the handle never

did fall.

I went to my mother and asked her if

God answered prayers every time one

was said. She smiled and said, “No, Billy,

not every time. He only answers the ones

that are said from the heart. You have to

be sincere and believe in Him.”

She wanted to know why I had asked.

I said, “Oh, I just wondered, and

wanted to know.”

She came over and straightened my

suspenders, saying, “That was a very nice

question for my little Daniel Boone to

ask.”

Bending over, she started kissing me. I

finally squirmed away from her, feeling as

wet as a dirt dauber’s nest. My mother

never could kiss me like a fellow should

be kissed. Before she was done I was

kissed all over. It always made me feel

silly and baby-like. I tried to tell her that a

coon hunter wasn’t supposed to be kissed

that way, but Mama never could

understand things like that.

I stomped out of the house to see how

my dogs were.

XII

THE FAME OF MY DOGS SPREAD ALL OVER OUR PART

OF THE Ozarks. They were the best in the

country. No coon hunter came into my

grandfather’s store with as many pelts as I

did. Grandpa never overlooked an

opportunity to brag. He told everyone the

story of my dogs, and the part he had

played in getting them.

Many was the time some farmer,

coming to our home, would say, “Your

Grandpa was telling me you got three big

coons over in Pea Vine Hollow the other

night.” I would listen, knowing I only got

one, or maybe none, but Grandpa was my

pal. If he said I caught ten in one tree, it

was just that way.

Because of my grandfather’s bragging,

and his firm belief in my dogs and me, a

terrible thing happened.

One morning, while having breakfast,

Mama said to Papa, “I’m almost out of

corn meal. Do you think you can go to the

mill today?”

Papa said, “I intended to butcher a hog.

We’re about out of meat.” Looking at me,

he said, “Shell a sack of corn. Take one of

the mules and go to the mill for your

mother.”

With the help of my sisters, we shelled

the corn. Throwing it over our mule’s

back, I started for the store.

On arriving at the millhouse, I tied my

mule to the hitching post, took my corn,

and set it by the door. I walked over to the

store and told Grandpa I wanted to get

some corn ground.

He said, “I’ll be with you in just a

minute.”

As I was waiting, I heard a horse

coming. Looking out, I saw who it was

and didn’t like what I saw. It was the two

youngest Pritchard boys. I had run into

them on several occasions during pie

suppers and dances.

The Pritchards were a large family that

lived upriver about five miles. As in most

small country communities, there is one

family that no one likes. The Pritchards

were it. Tales were told that they were

bootleggers, thieves, and just all-round

“no-accounts.” The story had gone round

that Old Man Pritchard had killed a man

somewhere in Missouri before moving to

our part of the country.

Rubin was two years older than I, big

and husky for his age. He never had much

to say. He had mean-looking eyes that

were set far back in his rugged face. They

were smoky-hued and unblinking, as if the

eyelids were paralyzed. I had heard that

once he had cut a boy with a knife in a

fight over at the sawmill.

Rainie was the youngest, about my age.

He had the meanest disposition of any boy

I had ever known. Because of this he was

disliked by young and old. Wherever

Rainie went, trouble seemed to follow. He

was always wanting to bet, and would bet

on anything. He was nervous, and could

never seem to stand still.

Once at my grandfather’s store, I had

given him a piece of candy. Snatching it

out of my hand, he ate it and then sneered

at me and said it wasn’t any good. During

a pie supper one night, he wanted to bet a

dime that he could whip me.

My mother told me always to be kind of

Rainie, that he couldn’t help being the way

he was. I asked, “Why?” She said it was

because his brothers were always picking

on him and beating him.

On entering the store, they stopped and

glared at me. Rubin walked over to the

counter. Rainie came over to me.

Leering at me, he said, “I’d like to make

a bet with you.”

I told him I didn’t want to bet.

He asked if I was scared.

“No. I just don’t want to bet,” I said.

His neck and ears looked as though they

hadn’t been washed in months. His ferret-

like eyes kept darting here and there.

Glancing down to his hands, I saw the

back of his right sleeve was stiff and

starchy from the constant wiping of his

nose.

He saw I was looking him over, and

asked if I liked what I saw.

I started to say, “No,” but didn’t,

turned, and walked away a few steps.

Rubin ordered some chewing tobacco.

“Aren’t you a little young to be

chewing?” Grandpa asked.

“Ain’t for me. It’s for my dad,” Rubin

growled.

Grandpa handed two plugs to him. He

paid for it, turned around, and handed one

plug to Rainie. Holding the other up in

front of him, he looked it over. Looking at

Grandpa, he gnawed at one corner of it.

Grandpa mumbled something about how

kids were brought up these days. He came

from behind the counter, saying to me,

“Let’s go grind that corn.”

The Pritchard boys made no move to

follow us out of the store.

“Come on,” Grandpa said. “I’m going

to lock up till I get this corn ground.”

“We’ll just stay here. I want to look at

some of the shirts,” said Rubin.

“No, you won’t,” said Grandpa. “Come

on, I’m going to lock up.”

Begrudgingly, they walked out.

I helped Grandpa start the mill and we

proceeded to grind the corn. The Pritchard

boys had followed us and were standing

looking on.

Rainie walked over to me. “I hear you

have some good hounds,” he said.

I told him I had the best in the country.

If he didn’t believe me, he could just ask

my grandfather.

He just leered at me. “I don’t think

they’re half as good as you say they are,”

he said. “Bet our old blue tick hound can

out-hunt both of them.”

I laughed, “Ask Grandpa who brings in

the most hides.”

“I

wouldn’t

believe

him.

He’s

crooked,” he said.

I let him know right quick that my

grandfather wasn’t crooked.

“He’s a storekeeper, ain’t he?” he said.

I glanced over at Grandpa. He had

heard the remark made by Rainie. His

friendly old face was as red as a turkey

gobbler’s wattle.

The last of my corn was just going

through the grinding stones. Grandpa

pushed a lever to one side, shutting off the

power. He came over and said to Rainie,

“What do you do? Just go around looking

for trouble. What do you want, a fight?”

Rubin sidled over. “This ain’t none of

your business,” he said. “Besides,

Rainie’s not looking for a fight. We just

want to make a bet with him.”

Grandpa glared at Rubin. “Any bet you

would make sure would be a good one all

right. What kind of a bet?”

Rubin spat a mouthful of tobacco juice

on the clean floor. He said, “Well, we’ve

heard so much about them hounds of his,

we just think it’s a lot of talk and lies.

We’d like to make a little bet; say about

two dollars.”

I had never seen my old grandfather so

mad. The red had left his face. In its place

was a sickly, paste-gray color. The kind

old eyes behind the glasses burned with a

fire I had never seen.

In a loud voice, he asked, “Bet on

what?”

Rubin spat again. Grandpa’s eyes

followed the brown stain in its arch until

it landed on the clean floor and splattered.

With a leering grin on his ugly, dirty

face, Rubin said, “Well, we got an old

coon up in our part of the country that’s

been there a long time. Ain’t no dog yet

ever been smart enough to tree him, and I

—”

Rainie broke into the conversation, “He

ain’t just an ordinary coon. He’s an old-

timer. Folks call him the ‘ghost coon.’

Believe me, he is a ghost. He just runs

hounds long enough to get them all

warmed up, then climbs a tree and

disappears. Our old blue hound has treed

him more times than—”

Rubin told Rainie to shut up and let him

do the talking. Looking over at me, he

said, “What do you say? Want to bet two

dollars your hounds can tree him?”

I looked at my grandfather, but he didn’t

help me.

I told Rubin I didn’t want to bet, but I

was pretty sure my dogs could tree the

ghost coon.

Rainie butted in again, “What’s the

matter? You ‘yellow’?”

I felt the hot blood rush into my face.

My stomach felt like something alive was

crawling in it. I doubled up my right fist

and was on the point of hitting Rainie in

one of his eyes when I felt my

grandfather’s hand on my shoulder.

I looked up. His eyes flashed as he

looked at me. A strange little smile was

tugging at the corner of his mouth. The big

artery in his neck was pounding out and in.

It reminded me of a young bird that had

fallen out of a nest and lay dying on the

ground.

Still looking at me, he reached back and

took his billfold from his pocket, saying,

“Let’s call that bet.” Turning to Rubin, he

said, “I’m going to let him call your bet,

but now you listen. If you boys take him up

there to hunt the ghost coon, and jump on

him and beat him up, you’re sure going to

hear from me. I don’t mean maybe. I’ll

have both of you taken to Tahlequah and

put in jail. You had better believe that.”

Rubin saw he had pushed my

grandfather far enough. Backing up a

couple of steps, he said, “We’re not going

to jump on him. All we want to do is make

a bet.”

Grandpa handed me two one-dollar

bills, saying to Rubin, “You hold your

money and he can hold his. If you lose,

you had better pay off.” Looking back to

me, he said, “Son, if you lose, pay off.”

I nodded my head.

I asked Rubin when he wanted me to

come up for the hunt.

He thought a minute. “You know where

that old log slide comes out from the hills

onto the road?” he asked.

I nodded.

“We’ll meet you there tomorrow night

about dark,” he said.

It was fine with me, I said, but I told

him not to bring his hounds because mine

wouldn’t hunt with other dogs.

He said he wouldn’t.

I agreed to bring my ax and lantern.

As they turned to leave, Rainie smirked.

“Sucker!” he said.

I made no reply.

After the Pritchard boys had gone, my

grandfather looked at me and said, “Son, I

have never asked another man for much,

but I sure want you to catch the ghost

coon.”

I told him if the ghost coon made one

track in the river bottoms, my dogs would

get him.

Grandpa laughed.

“You’d better be getting home. It’s

getting late and your mother is waiting for

the corn meal,” he said.

I could hear him chuckling as he walked

toward his store. I thought to myself,

“There goes the best grandpa a boy ever

had.”

Lifting the sack of meal to the back of

my old mule, I started for home. All the

way, I kept thinking of Old Dan, Little

Ann, ghost coons, and the two ugly, dirty

Pritchard boys. I decided not to tell my

mother and father anything about the hunt

for I knew Mama wouldn’t approve of

anything I had to do with the Pritchards.

The following evening I arrived at the

designated spot early. I sat down by a red

oak tree to wait. I called Little Ann over

to me and had a good talk with her. I told

her how much I loved her, scratched her

back, and looked at the pads of her feet.

“Sweetheart,” I said, “you must do

something for me tonight. I want you to

tree the ghost coon for it means so much to

Grandpa and me.”

She

seemed

to

understand

and

answered by washing my face and hands.

I tried to talk to Old Dan, but I may as

well have talked to a stump for all the

attention he paid to me. He kept walking

around sniffing here and there. He

couldn’t understand why we were waiting.

He was wanting to hunt.

Rubin and Rainie showed up just at

dark. Both had sneers on their faces.

“Are you ready?” Rubin asked.

“Yes,” I said, and asked him which way

was the best to go.

“Let’s go downriver a way and work

up,” he said. “We’re sure to strike him

coming upriver, and that way we’ve got

the wind in our favor.”

“Are these the hounds that we’ve been

hearing so much about?” Rainie asked.

I nodded.

“They look too little to be any good,”

he said.

I told him dynamite came in little

packages.

He asked me if I had my two dollars.

“Yes,” I said.

He wanted to see my money. I showed

it to him. Rubin, not to be outdone,

showed me his.

We crossed an old field and entered the

river bottoms. By this time it was quite

dark. I lit my lantern and asked which one

wanted to carry my ax.

“It’s yours,” Rainie said. “You carry

it.”

Not wanting to argue, I carried both the

lantern and the ax.

Rainie started telling me how stingy and

crooked my grandfather was. I told him I

hadn’t come to have any trouble or to

fight. All I wanted to do was to hunt the

ghost coon. If there was going to be any

trouble, I would just call my dogs and go

home.

Rubin had a nickel’s worth of sense, but

Rainie had none at all. Rubin told him if

he didn’t shut up, he was going to bloody

his nose. That shut Rainie up.

Old Dan opened up first. It was a

beautiful thing to hear. The deep tones of

his voice rolled in the silent night.

A bird in a canebrake on our right

started chirping. A big swamp rabbit came

running down the riverbank as if all hell

was close to his heels. A bunch of

mallards, feeding in the shallows across

the river, took flight with frightened

quacks. A feeling that only a hunter knows

slowly crept over my body. I whooped to

my dogs, urging them on.

Little Ann came in. Her bell-like tones

blended with Old Dan’s, in perfect

rhythm. We stood and listened to the

beautiful music, the deep-throated notes of

hunting hounds on the hot-scented trail of a

river coon.

Rubin said, “If he crosses the river up

at the Buck Ford, it’s the ghost coon, as

that’s the way he always runs.”

We stood and listened. Sure enough, the

voices of my dogs were silent for a few

minutes. Old Dan, a more powerful

swimmer than Little Ann, was the first to

open up after crossing over. She was

close behind him.

Rubin said, “That’s him, all right.

That’s the ghost coon.”

They crossed the river again.

We waited.

Rainie said, “You may as well get your

money out now.”

I told him just to wait a while, and I’d

show him the ghost coon’s hide.

This brought a loud laugh from Rainie,

which sounded like someone had dropped

an empty bucket on a gravel bar and then

had kicked it.

The wily old coon crossed the river

several times, but couldn’t shake my dogs

from his trail. He cut out from the bottoms,

walked a rail fence, and jumped from it

into a thick canebrake. He piled into an

old slough. Where it emptied into the

river, he swam to the middle. Doing

opposite to what most coons do, which is

swim downstream, he swam upstream. He

stopped at an old drift in the middle of it.

Little Ann found him. When she jumped

him from the drift, Old Dan was far

downriver searching for the trail. If he

could have gotten there in time, it would

have been the last of the ghost coon, but

Little Ann couldn’t do much by herself in

the water. He fought his way free from

her, swam to our side, and ran upstream.

I could hear Old Dan coming through

the bottoms on the other side, bawling at

every jump. I could feel the driving power

in his voice. We heard him when he hit the

water to cross over. It sounded like a cow

had jumped in.

Little Ann was warming up the ghost

coon. I could tell by her voice that she

was close to him.

Reaching our side, Old Dan tore out

after her. He was a mad hound. His deep

voice was telling her he was coming.

We were trotting along, following my

dogs, when I heard Little Ann’s bawling

stop.

“Wait a minute,” I said. “I think she has

treed him. Let’s give her time to circle the

tree to make sure he’s there.”

Old Dan opened up bawling treed.

Rubin started on.

“Something’s wrong,” I said. “I can’t

hear Little Ann.”

Rainie spoke up, “Maybe the ghost

coon ate her up.”

I glared at him.

Hurrying on, we came to my dogs. Old

Dan was bawling at a hole in a large

sycamore that had fallen into the river.

At that spot, the bank was a good ten

feet above the water level. As the big tree

had fallen, the roots had been torn and

twisted from the ground. The jagged roots,

acting as a drag, had stopped it from

falling all the way into the stream. The

trunk lay on a steep slant from the top of

the bank to the water. Looking down, I

could see the broken tangled mass of the

top. Debris from floods had caught in the

limbs, forming a drift.

Old Dan was trying to dig and gnaw his

way into the log. Pulling him from the

hole, I held my lantern up and looked

down into the dark hollow. I knew that

somewhere down below the surface there

had to be another hole in the trunk, as

water had filled the hollow to the river

level.

Rubin, looking over my shoulder, said,

“That coon couldn’t be in there. If he was,

he’d be drowned.”

I agreed.

Rainie spoke up. “You ready to pay

off?” he asked. “I told you them hounds

couldn’t tree the ghost coon.”

I told him the show wasn’t over.

Little Ann had never bawled treed, and

I knew she wouldn’t until she knew

exactly where the coon was. Working the

bank up and down, and not finding the

trail, she swam across the river and

worked the other side. For a good half-

hour she searched that side before she

came back across to where Old Dan was.

She sniffed around the hollow log.

“We might as well get away from

here,” Rainie said. “They ain’t going to

find the ghost coon.”

“It sure looks that way,” Rubin said.

I told them I wasn’t giving up until my

dogs did.

“You just want to be stubborn,” Rubin

said. “I’m ready for my money now.”

I asked him to wait a few minutes.

“Ain’t no use,” he said. “No hound yet

ever treed that ghost coon.”

Hearing a whine, I turned around. Little

Ann had crawled up on the log and was

inching her way down the slick trunk

toward the water. I held my lantern up so I

could see better. Spraddle-legged, claws

digging into the bark, she was easing her

way down.

“You’d better get her out of there,”

Rubin said. “If she gets down in that old

tree top, she’ll drown.”

Rubin didn’t know my Little Ann.

Once her feet slipped. I saw her hind

quarters fall off to one side. She didn’t get

scared. Slowly she eased her legs back up

on the log.

I made no reply. I just watched and

waited.

Little Ann eased herself into the water.

Swimming to the drift, she started sniffing

around. In places it was thin and her legs

would break through. Climbing, clawing,

and swimming, she searched the drift

over, looking for the lost trail.

I saw when she stopped searching. With

her body half in the water, and her front

feet curved over a piece of driftwood, she

turned her head and looked toward the

shore. I could see her head twisting from

side to side. I could tell by her actions that

she had gotten the scent. With a low

whine, she started back.

I told Rubin, “I think she smells

something.”

Slowly and carefully she worked her

way through the tangled mass. I lost sight

of her when she came close to the

undermined bank. She wormed her way

under the overhang. I could hear her

clawing and wallowing around, and then

all hell broke loose. Out from under the

bank came the biggest coon I had ever

seen, the ghost coon.

He came out right over Little Ann. She

caught him in the old treetop. I knew she

was no match for him in that tangled mass

of limbs and logs. He fought his way free

and swam for the opposite bank. She was

right behind him.

Old Dan didn’t wait, look, or listen. He

piled

off

the

ten-foot

bank

and

disappeared from sight. I looked for him. I

knew he was tangled in the debris under

the surface. I started to take off my

overalls, but stopped when I saw his red

head shoot up out of the water. Bawling

and clawing his way free of the limbs and

logs, he was on his way.

On reaching midstream, the ghost coon

headed downriver with Little Ann still on

his tail.

We ran down the riverbank. I could see

my dogs clearly in the moonlight. The

ghost coon was about fifteen feet ahead of

Little Ann. About twenty-five yards

behind them came Old Dan, trying so hard

to catch up. I whooped to them.

Rubin grabbed a pole, saying, “He may

come out on this side.”

Knowing the ghost coon was desperate,

I wondered what he would do. Reaching a

gravel bar below the high bank, we ran

out on it to the water’s edge. Then the

ghost coon did something that I never

expected. Coming even with us, he turned

from midstream and came straight for us.

I heard Rubin yell, “Here he comes!”

He churned his way through the

shallows and ran right between us. Rubin

swung his pole, missed the coon, and

almost hit Little Ann. The coon headed for

the river bottoms with her right on his

heels.

The bawling of Little Ann and our

screaming and hollering made so much

noise, I didn’t hear Old Dan coming. He

tore out of the river, plowed into me, and

knocked me down.

We ran through the bottoms, following

my dogs. I thought the ghost coon was

going back to the sycamore log but he

didn’t. He ran upriver.

While hurrying after them, I looked

over at Rainie. For once in his life, I think

he was excited. He was whooping and

screaming, and falling over logs and

limbs.

I felt good all over.

Glancing over at me, Rainie said,

“They ain’t got him yet.”

The ghost coon crossed the river time

after time. Seeing that he couldn’t shake

Old Dan and Little Ann from his trail, he

cut through the river bottoms and ran out

into an old field.

At this maneuver, Rubin said to Rainie,

“He’s heading for that tree.”

“What tree?” I asked.

“You’ll see,” Rainie said. “When he

gets tired, he always heads for that tree.

That’s where he gets his name, the ghost

coon. He just disappears.”

“If he disappears, my dogs will

disappear with him,” I said.

Rainie laughed.

I had to admit one thing. The Pritchard

boys knew the habits of the ghost coon. I

knew he couldn’t run all night. He had

already far surpassed any coon I had ever

chased.

“They’re just about there,” Rubin said.

Just then I heard Old Dan bark treed. I

waited for Little Ann’s voice. I didn’t

hear her. I wondered what it could be this

time.

“He’s there all right,” Rubin said.

“He’s in that tree.”

“Well, come on,” I said. “I want to see

that tree.”

“You might as well get your money

out,” Rainie said.

I told him he had said that once before,

back on the riverbank.

XIII

COMING UP TO THE TREE, I COULD SEE IT WAS A HUGE

BUR oak. It wasn’t tall. It was just the

opposite, rather low and squatty. The top

was a thick mass of large limbs, and it

hadn’t shed all of its leaves yet.

It stood by itself in an old field. There

were no other trees within fifty yards of it.

About fifteen feet to the left were the

remains of a barbed-wire fence. An old

gate hung by one rusty hinge from a large

corner post. I could tell that at one time a

house had stood close by.

Rubin saw me looking around. “A long

time ago some Indians lived here and

farmed these fields,” he said.

I walked around the tree looking for the

coon, but could see very little in the dark

shadows.

“Ain’t no use to look,” Rubin said. “He

won’t be there.”

Rainie spoke up. “This ain’t the first

time we’ve been to this tree,” he said.

Rubin told Rainie to shut up. “You talk

too much,” he said.

In a whining voice, Rainie said,

“Rubin, you know the coon ain’t in that

tree. Make him pay off and let’s go home.

I’m getting tired.”

I told Rubin I was going to climb the

tree.

“Go ahead,” he said. “It won’t do you

any good.”

The tree was easy to climb. I looked all

over it, on each limb, and in every dark

place. I looked for a hollow. The ghost

coon wasn’t there. I climbed back down,

scolded Old Dan to stop his loud bawling,

and looked for Little Ann.

I saw her far up the old fence row,

sniffing and running here and there. I knew

the ghost coon had pulled a real trick, but I

couldn’t figure out what it was. Little Ann

had never yet barked treed. I knew if the

coon was in the tree she wouldn’t still be

searching for a trail.

Old Dan started working again.

My dogs covered the field. They

circled and circled. They ran up and down

the barbed-wire fence on both sides.

I knew the coon hadn’t walked the

barbed wire. Ghost or no ghost, he

couldn’t do that. I walked over to the old

gate and looked around. I sat down and

stared up into the tree. Little Ann came to

me.

Old Dan, giving up his search, came

back to the tree and bawled a couple of

times. I scolded him again.

Rubin came over. Leering at me, he

said, “You give up?”

I didn’t answer.

Little Ann once again started searching

for the lost trail. Old Dan went to help

her.

Rainie said, “I told you that you

couldn’t tree the ghost coon. Why don’t

you pay off so we can go home?”

I told him I hadn’t given up. My dogs

were still hunting. When they gave up, I

would, too.

Rubin said, “Well, we’re not going to

stay here all night.”

Looking back to the tree, I thought

perhaps I had overlooked something. I

told Rubin I was going to climb it again.

He laughed, “Go ahead. Won’t do any

good. You climbed it once. Ain’t you

satisfied?”

“No, I’m not satisfied,” I said. “I just

don’t believe in ghost coons.”

Rubin said, “I don’t believe in ghosts

either, but facts are facts. To tell you the

truth, I’ve climbed that tree a dozen times

and there just ain’t no place in it for a

coon to hide.”

Rainie spoke up. “Our old blue hound

has treed the ghost coon in this tree more

times than one. Maybe you two don’t

believe in ghosts, but I do. Why don’t you

pay off so we can get away from here?”

“I’ll climb it one more time,” I said. “If

I can’t find him, I’ll pay off.”

Climbing up again, I searched and

searched. When I got through, I knew the

ghost coon wasn’t in that tree. When I

came down, I saw my dogs had given up.

That took the last resistance out of me. I

knew if they couldn’t find the ghost coon, I

couldn’t.

Digging the two one-dollar bills out of

my pocket, I walked over to Rubin. Little

Ann was by my side. I handed my money

over, saying, “Well, you won it fair and

square.”

With a grin on his face, Rubin took my

money. He said, “I bet this will break your

old grandpa’s heart.”

I didn’t reply.

Reaching down, I caught Little Ann’s

head in my hands. Looking into her warm

friendly eyes, I said, “It’s all right, little

girl, we haven’t given up yet. We’ll come

back. We may never catch the ghost coon,

but we’ll run him until he leaves the

country.

She licked my hands and whined.

A small breeze began to stir. Glancing

up into the tree, I saw some leaves

shaking. I said to Rubin, “Looks like the

wind is coming up. It may blow up a

storm. We’d better be heading for home.”

Just as I turned, I saw Little Ann throw

up her head and whine. Her body grew

stiff and taut. I watched her. She was

testing the wind. I knew she had scented

something in the breeze. Stiff-legged, head

high in the air, she started walking toward

the tree. Almost there, she turned back and

stopped. I knew she had caught the scent

but could only catch it when a breeze

came.

Looking at Rubin, I said, “I haven’t lost

that two dollars yet.”

Another breeze drifted out of the river

bottoms. Little Ann caught the scent again.

Slowly she walked straight to the large

gatepost, reared up on it with her front

feet, and bawled the most beautiful tree

bark I ever heard in my life.

Old Dan, not understanding why Little

Ann was bawling, stood and looked. He

walked over to the post, reared up on it,

and sniffed. Then, raising his head, he

shook the dead leaves in the bur oak tree

with his deep voice.

I looked at Rainie. Laughing, I said,

“There’s your ghost coon. Now what do

you think of my dogs?”

For once he made no reply.

Going over to the post, I saw it was a

large black locust put there many years

ago to hang the gate. Looking up at the

tree, I saw how the ghost coon had pulled

his trick. One large long limb ran out and

hung directly over the gate. It was a drop

of a good twelve feet from the branch to

the top of the gatepost, but I knew we

weren’t after an ordinary coon. This was

the ghost coon.

I said to Rubin, “Boost me up and I’ll

see if the post is hollow.”

After breaking off a long Jimson weed

to use as a prod, I got up on Rubin’s

shoulder, and he raised me up. The post

was hollow. Not knowing how far down

the hole went, I started the switch down.

About halfway, I felt something soft. I

gave it a hard jab.

I heard him coming. He boiled out right

in my face. I let go of everything. Hitting

the ground, I rolled over on my back and

looked up.

For a split second, the ghost coon

stayed on top of the post, and then he

jumped. My dogs were on him the instant

he hit the ground. The fight was on.

I knew the coon didn’t have a chance as

he wasn’t in the waters of the river. He

didn’t give up easily even though he was

on dry land. He was fighting for his life

and a good account he gave. He fought his

way to freedom, and made it back to the

bur oak tree. He was a good six feet up the

side when Old Dan, leaping high in the

air, caught him and pulled him back down.

At the foot of the tree, the fight went on.

Again the ghost coon fought his way free.

This time he made it and disappeared in

the dark shadows of the tree. Old Dan was

furious. Never before had I seen a coon

get away from him.

I told Rubin I would climb up and run

him out. As I started climbing, I saw Little

Ann go to one side and Old Dan to the

other. My dogs would never stay together

when they had treed a coon, so that any

way he left a tree, he was met by one of

them.

About halfway up, far out on a limb, I

found the ghost coon. As I started toward

him, my dogs stopped bawling. I heard

something I had heard many times. The

sound was like the cry of a small baby. It

was the cry of a ringtail coon when he

knows it is the end of the trail. I never

liked to hear this cry, but it was all in the

game, the hunter and the hunted.

As I sat there on the limb, looking at the

old fellow, he cried again. Something

came over me. I didn’t want to kill him.

I hollered down and told Rubin I didn’t

want to kill the ghost coon.

He hollered back, “Are you crazy?”

I told him I wasn’t crazy. I just didn’t

want to kill him.

I climbed down.

Rubin was mad. He said, “What’s the

matter with you?”

“Nothing,” I told him. “I just don’t have

the heart to kill the coon.”

I told him there were plenty more; why

kill him? He had lived here a long time,

and more than one hunter had listened to

the voices of his hounds bawling on his

trail.

Rainie said, “He’s chicken-livered,

that’s what it is.”

I didn’t like that but, not wanting to

argue, I didn’t say anything.

Rubin said, “I’ll go up and run him

out.”

“I won’t let my dogs kill him,” I said.

Rubin glared at me. “I’m going up and

run that coon out,” he said. “If you stop

your dogs, I’m going to beat you half to

death.”

“Do it anyway, Rubin,” Rainie said.

“I’ve a good mind to,” said Rubin.

Just as Rubin started to climb the tree,

Old Dan growled. He was staring into the

darkness. Something was coming.

“What’s that?” I asked.

“I don’t know,” Rubin said. “Don’t

sound like anything I ever heard.”

“It’s ghosts,” Rainie said. “Let’s get

away from here.”

An animal was coming out of the

darkness. It was walking slowly in an odd

way, as if it were walking sideways. The

hair on the back of my neck stood straight

out.

As the animal came closer, Rainie said,

“Why, it’s Old Blue. How did he get

loose?”

It was a big blue tick hound. Around his

neck was a piece of rope about three feet

long. One could see that the rope had been

gnawed in two. The frayed end had

become entangled in a fair-sized dead

limb. Dragging the limb was what made

the dog look so odd. I felt much better

when I found out what it was.

The blue tick hound was like the

Pritchards, mean and ugly. He was a big

dog, tall and heavy. His chest was thick

and solid. He came up growling. The hair

on his back was standing straight up. He

walked stiff-legged around Old Dan,

showing his teeth.

I told Rainie he had better get hold of

his dog, or there was sure to be a fight.

“You better get hold of your dog,” he

said. “I’m not worried about Old Blue. He

can take care of himself.”

I said no more.

“Don’t make no difference now whether

you kill the ghost coon or not,” Rubin

said. “Old Blue will take care of him.”

I knew the killing of the coon was out of

my control, but I didn’t want to see him

die. I said to Rubin, “Just give back my

two dollars and I’ll go home. I can’t keep

you from killing him, but I don’t have to

stay and see it.”

“Rubin, don’t give him the money,”

Rainie said. “He ain’t killed the ghost

coon.”

“That’s right,” Rubin said. “You ain’t,

and I wouldn’t let you now, even if you

wanted to.”

I told them my dogs had treed the ghost

coon and that was the bet, to tree the ghost

coon.

“No, it wasn’t,” Rubin said. “You said

you would kill him.”

“It was no such thing,” I said. “I’ve

done all I said I would.”

Rubin walked up in front of me. He

said, “I ain’t going to give you the money.

You didn’t win it fair. Now what are you

going to do about it?”

I looked into his mean eyes. I started to

make some reply, but decided against it.

He saw my hesitation, and said, “You

better get your dogs and get out of here

before you get whipped.”

In a loud voice, Rainie said, “Bloody

his nose, Rubin.”

I was scared. I couldn’t whip Rubin. He

was too big for me. I started to turn and

leave when I thought of what my

grandfather had told them.

“You had better remember what my

grandpa said,” I reminded them. “He’ll do

just what he said he would.”

Rubin didn’t hit me. He just grabbed me

and with his brute strength threw me down

on the ground. He had me on my back with

my arms outspread. He had a knee on each

arm. I made no effort to fight back. I was

scared.

“If you say one word to your grandpa

about this,” Rubin said, “I’ll catch you

hunting some night and take my knife to

you.”

Looking up into his ugly face, I knew he

would do just what he said. I told him to

let me up and I would go and not say

anything to anyone.

“Don’t let him up, Rubin,” Rainie said.

“Beat the hell out of him, or hold him and

let me do it.”

Just then I heard growling, and a

commotion off to one side. The blue hound

had finally gotten a fight out of Old Dan.

Turning my head sideways, I could see

them standing on their hind legs, tearing

and slashing at each other. The weight of

the big hound pushed Old Dan over.

I told Rubin to let me up so we could

stop the fight.

He laughed, “While my dog is whipping

yours, I think I’ll just work you over a

little.” So saying, he jerked my cap off,

and started whipping me in the face with

it.

I heard Rainie yell, “Rubin, they’re

killing Old Blue.”

Rubin jumped up off me.

I clambered up and looked over to the

fight. What I saw thrilled me. Faithful

Little Ann, bitch though she was, had gone

to the assistance of Old Dan.

I knew my dogs were very close to each

other. Everything they did was done as a

combination, but I never expected this. It

is a very rare occasion for a bitch dog to

fight another dog, but fight she did.

I could see that Little Ann’s jaws were

glued to the throat of the big hound. She

would never loosen that deadly hold until

the last breath of life was gone.

Old Dan was tearing and slashing at the

soft belly. I knew the destruction his long

sharp teeth were causing.

Again Rainie yelled, “Rubin, they’re

killing him. They’re killing Old Blue. Do

something quick.”

Rubin darted over to one side, grabbed

my ax from the ground, and said in a loud

voice, “I’ll kill them damn hounds.”

At the thought of what he was going to

do with the ax, I screamed and ran for my

dogs. Rubin was about ten feet ahead of

me, bent over, running with the ax held out

in front of him. I knew I could never get to

them in time.

I was screaming, “No, Rubin, no!”

I saw the small stick when it whipped

up from the ground. As if it were alive, it

caught between Rubin’s legs. I saw him

fall. I ran on by.

Reaching the dogfight, I saw the big

hound was almost gone. He had long since

ceased fighting. His body lay stretched

full-length on the ground. I grabbed Old

Dan’s collar and pulled him back. It was

different with Little Ann. Pull as I might,

she wouldn’t let go of the hound’s throat.

Her jaws were locked.

I turned Old Dan loose and, getting

astraddle of Little Ann, I pried her jaws

apart with my hands. Old Dan had darted

back in. Grabbing his collar again, I

pulled them off to one side.

The blue hound lay where he was. I

thought perhaps he was already dead, and

then I saw him move a little.

Still holding my dogs by their collars, I

looked back. I couldn’t understand what I

saw. Rubin was laying where he had

fallen. His back was toward me, and his

body was bent in a “U” shape. Rainie was

standing on the other side of him, staring

down.

I hollered and asked Rainie, “What’s

the matter?”

He didn’t answer. He just stood as

though in a trance, staring down at Rubin.

I hollered again. He still didn’t answer.

I didn’t know what to do. I couldn’t turn

my dogs loose. They would go for the

hound again.

Again I hollered at Rainie, asking him

to come and help me. He neither moved

nor answered. I had to do something.

Looking around, my glance fell on the

old barbed-wire fence. I led my dogs to it.

Holding onto their collars with one hand, I

worked a rusty barbed wire backwards

and forwards against a staple until it

broke. Running the end of it under their

collars, I tied them up. They made two or

three lunges toward the hound, but the

wire held.

I walked over and stopped at Rainie’s

side. I again asked, “What’s the matter?”

He said not a word.

I could see that Rainie was paralyzed

with fright. His mouth and eyes were

opened wide, and his face was as white as

chalk. I laid my hand on his shoulder. At

the touch of my hand, he jumped and

screamed. Still screaming, he turned and

started running. I watched him until he

disappeared in the darkness.

Looking down at Rubin, I saw what had

paralyzed Rainie. When Rubin had

tripped, he had fallen on the ax. As it

entered his stomach, the sharp blade had

sunk to the eye of the double-bitted ax.

Turning my back to the horrible sight, I

closed my eyes. The muscles in my

stomach knotted and jerked. A nauseating

sickness spread over my body. I couldn’t

look at him.

I heard Rubin whisper. Turning around,

I knelt down by his side with my back to

the ax. I couldn’t understand what he was

whispering. Kneeling down closer, I

heard and understood. In a faint voice, he

said, “Take it out of me.”

I hesitated.

Again he pleaded, “Please, take it out

of me.”

Turning around, I saw his hands were

curled around the protruding blade as if he

himself had tried to pull it from his

stomach.

How I did it, I’ll never know. Putting

my hands over his and pressing down, I

pulled the ax from the wound. The blood

gushed. I felt the warm heat as it spread

over my hands. Again the sickness came

over me. I stumbled to my feet and

stepped back a few paces.

Seeing a movement from Rubin, I

thought he was going to get up. With his

hands, he pushed himself halfway up. His

eyes were wide open, staring straight at

me. Stopping in his effort of getting up,

still staring at me, his mouth opened as if

to say something. Words never came.

Instead, a large red bubble slowly worked

its way out of his mouth and burst. He fell

back to the ground. I knew he was dead.

Scared, not knowing what to do, I

called for Rainie. I got no answer. I called

his name again and again. I could get no

reply. My voice echoed in the darkness of

the silent night. A cold chill ran over my

body.

I suppose it is natural at a time like that

for a boy to think of his mother. I thought

of mine. I wanted to get home.

Going over to my dogs, I glanced to

where the blue hound was. He was trying

to get up. I was glad he wasn’t dead.

Picking up my lantern, I thought of my

ax. I left it. I didn’t care if I never saw it

again.

Knowing I couldn’t turn my dogs loose,

I broke off enough of the wire to lead

them. As I passed under the branches of

the bur oak tree, I looked up into the dark

foliage. I could see the bright eyes of the

ghost coon. Everything that had happened

on this terrible night was because of his

very existence, but it wasn’t his fault.

I also knew he was a silent witness to

the horrible scene. Behind me lay the still

body of a young boy. On my left a blue

tick hound lay torn and bleeding. Even

after all that had happened, I could feel no

hatred for the ghost coon and was not

sorry I had let him live.

Arriving home, I awakened my mother

and father. Starting at my grandfather’s

mill, I told everything that had happened. I

left nothing out. My mother had started

crying long before I had completed my

story. Papa said nothing, just sat and

listened. When I had finished, he kept

staring down at the floor in deep thought. I

could hear the sobbing of my mother in the

silence. I walked over to her. She put her

arms around me and said, “My poor little

boy.”

Getting to his feet, Papa reached for his

coat and hat. Mama asked him where he

was going.

“Well, I’ll have to go up there,” he

said. “I’m going to get Grandpa, for he is

the only man in the country that has

authority to move the body.”

Looking at me, he said, “You go across

the river and get Old Man Lowery, and

you may as well go on up and tell the

Bufords, too. Tell them to meet us at your

grandfather’s place.”

I hurried to carry the sad message.

The following day was a nasty one. A

slow, cold drizzle had set in. Feeling

trapped indoors, I prowled from room to

room. I couldn’t understand why my father

hadn’t come back from the Pritchards’. I

sat by the window and watched the road.

Understanding my feelings, Mama said,

“Billy, I wouldn’t worry. He’ll be back

before long. It takes time for things like

that.”

“I know,” I said, “but you would think

he would’ve been back by now.”

Time dragged slowly by. Late in the

afternoon, I saw Papa coming. Our old

mule was jogging along. Water was

shooting out from under his feet in small

squirts at every step.

Papa had tied the halter rope around the

mule’s neck. He was sitting humped over,

with his hands jammed deep in the pockets

of his patched and worn mackinaw. I felt

sorry for him. He was soaking wet, tired,

sleepy, and hungry.

Telling Mama, “Here he is,” I grabbed

my jumper and cap, and ran out to the gate

and waited.

I was going to ask him what had

happened at the Pritchards’ but on seeing

his tired face and wet clothes, I said,

“Papa, you had better go in to the fire. I’ll

take care of the mule, and do the feeding

and milking.”

“That would be fine,” he said.

After doing the chores, I hurried to the

house. I couldn’t wait any longer. I had to

find out what had happened.

Walking into the front room, I saw my

father had changed clothes. He was

standing in front of the fireplace, drinking

coffee.

“Boy, that’s bad weather, isn’t it?” he

said.

I said it was, and asked him about

Rubin.

“We went to the old tree and got

Rubin’s body,” Papa said. “We were on

our way back to the Pritchards’ when we

met them. They were just this side of their

place. They had started to look for him.

Rainie had been so dazed when he got

home, they couldn’t make out what he was

trying to tell them, but they knew it must

have been something bad. They wanted to

know what had happened. I did my best to

explain the accident. It hit Old Man

Pritchard pretty hard. I felt sorry for him.”

Mama asked how Mrs. Pritchard was

taking it.

Papa said he didn’t know as he never

did get to see any of the womenfolks. He

said they were the funniest bunch he had

ever seen. He couldn’t understand them.

There wasn’t one tear shed that he could

see. All of the men had stayed out at the

barn. They never had been invited in for a

cup of coffee or anything.

Mama asked when they were to have

the funeral.

“They have their own graveyard right

there on the place,” Papa said. “Old Man

Pritchard said they would take care of

everything, and didn’t want to bother

people. He said it was too far for anyone

to come, and it was bad weather, too.”

Mama said she couldn’t help feeling

sorry for Mrs. Pritchard, and wished they

were more friendly.

I asked Papa about Rainie.

Papa said, “According to what Old

Man Pritchard said, Rainie just couldn’t

seem to get over the shock. They were

figuring on taking him into town to see the

doctor.”

In a stern voice, Papa said, “Billy, I

don’t want you fooling around with the

Pritchards any more. You have plenty of

country around here so you don’t have to

go there to hunt.”

I said I wouldn’t.

I felt bad about the death of Rubin. I

didn’t feel like hunting and kept having

bad dreams. I couldn’t forget the way he

had looked at me just before he died. I

moped and wandered around in a daze. I

wanted to do something but didn’t know

what it was.

I explained my feelings to my mother.

She said, “Billy, I feel the same way and

would like to do something to help, but I

guess there’s nothing we can do. There are

people like the Pritchards all through the

hills. They live in little worlds of their

own and are all alone. They don’t like to

have outsiders interfere.”

I told my mother I had been thinking

about how dangerous it was to carry an ax

while hunting, and I had decided I’d save

a few coon hides and get a good gun. Boy,

I just shouldn’t have mentioned getting a

gun. My mother got “sitting-hen” mad.

“You’re not getting a gun,” she said. “I

won’t have that at all. I told you a long

time ago you could have one when you are

twenty-one years old, and I mean just that.

I worry enough with you out there in the

hills all hours of the night, running and

jumping, but I couldn’t stand it if I knew

you had a gun with you. No, sir. You can

just forget about a gun.”

“Yes, Mama,” I said, and sulked off to

my room.

Lying on my bed, still trying to figure

out what I could do to help, I glanced over

to the wall. There, tied in a small bundle,

was just what I needed.

Some time back my sisters had made

some flowers for Decoration Day. They

had given me a small bouquet for my

room. Taking them down, I could see they

had faded a little, and looked rather old,

but they were still pretty. I blew the dust

off and straightened the crinkled petals.

Putting them inside my shirt, I left the

house.

I hadn’t gone far when I heard

something behind me. It was my dogs. I

tried to tell them I wasn’t going hunting. I

just had a little business to attend to, and if

they would go back, I’d take them out that

night. It was no use. They couldn’t

understand.

Circling around through the flats, I came

to the hollow above the Pritchards’ place.

Down below me, I could see the

graveyard, and the fresh mound of dirt. As

quietly as I could, I started easing myself

down the mountainside.

Old Dan loosened a rock. The further it

bounced, the louder it got. It slammed up

against a post oak tree and sounded like a

gunshot. I held my breath and watched the

house. No one came out.

I glared at Old Dan. He wagged his tail,

and just to show off, he sat down on his

rear and started digging at a flea with his

hind leg. The way his leg was thumping in

the leaves, anyone could have heard it for

a mile. I waited until he quit thumping

before starting on.

Reaching the bottom, I had about twenty

yards of clearing to cross, but the grass

and bushes were pretty thick. Laying down

on my stomach, with my heart beating like

a trip hammer, I wiggled my way to

Rubin’s grave. I laid the flowers on the

fresh mound of earth, and then turned

around and scooted for the timber.

Just as we reached the mountaintop, my

foot slipped and I kicked loose a large

rock. Down the side of the mountain it

rolled. This time the blue tick hound heard

the noise. He came out from under the

house bawling. I heard a door slam and

Mrs. Pritchard came out. She stood

looking this way and that way.

The hound ran up to the graveyard and

started sniffing and bawling. Mrs.

Pritchard followed him. Seeing the

flowers on Rubin’s grave, she picked

them up and looked at them. She scolded

the hound, and then looked up at the

hillside. I knew she couldn’t see me

because the timber was too thick, but I felt

uncomfortable anyway.

Scolding the hound again, she knelt

down and arranged the flowers on the

grave. Taking one more look at the

hillside, she started back. Halfway to the

house, I saw her reach down and gather

the long cotton skirt in her hand and dab at

her eyes.

I felt much better after paying my

respects to Rubin. Everything looked

brighter, and I didn’t have that funny

feeling any more.

All the way home my dogs kept running

out in front of me. They would stop, turn

around, and look at me. I had to smile, for

I knew what they wanted. I stopped and

petted them a little and told them that as

soon as I got home and had my supper, we

would go hunting.

XIV

A FEW DAYS LATER, ON HIS WAY BACK FROM THE

MILL, ONE of the Hatfield boys stopped at

our place. He told me my grandfather

wanted to see me. It was unusual for

Grandpa to send for me and it had me

worried. I figured that he wanted to talk to

me about the death of Rubin Pritchard. I

always enjoyed talking to my grandpa but

I didn’t want to talk about Rubin’s death.

Every time I thought of him, I lived the

horrible tragedy all over again.

After a practically sleepless night, the

next morning I started for the store. I was

walking along deep in thought when Little

Ann zipped by me. She was as happy as a

young gray squirrel. She wiggled and

twisted and once she barked at me. I

looked behind me. There was Old Dan

trotting along. He stopped when I turned

around. Little Ann came up to me. I

scolded them and tried to explain that I

wasn’t going hunting. I was just going up

to the store to see what my grandpa

wanted. They couldn’t, or didn’t, want to

understand.

I picked up a small stick and slapped

my leg with it. In a deep voice I said,

“Now you go home, or I’m going to wear

you out.”

This hurt their feelings. With their tails

between their legs and trotting side by

side, they started back. Every little way

they would stop and look back at me. It

was too much. I couldn’t stand it. I began

to feel bad all over.

“Well, all right,” I said. “Come on, you

can go, but, Dan, if there are any dogs

around the store, and you get in a fight, I

won’t take you hunting for a whole year,

and I mean that,” although I knew I didn’t.

They came running, tickled to death.

Little Ann took one of her silly spells. She

started nipping at the long red tail of Old

Dan. Not getting any reaction from him,

she jumped over him. She barked at him.

He wouldn’t even look at her. She ran

around in front of him and laid down in

the trail, acting like a cat ready to spring.

Stiff-legged, he walked up close to her,

stopped, and showed his teeth. I laughed

out loud. I knew he wouldn’t bite her any

more than he would bite me. He was just

acting tough because he was a boy dog.

After several attempts to get him to

play, Little Ann gave up. Together they

started sniffing around in the underbrush.

As I walked up in front of the store,

Grandpa hollered at me from the barn. I

went over to him. Right away he wanted

to know all about Rubin’s accident. He

listened while I told the story over again.

After I had had my say, Grandpa stood

looking down at the ground. There was a

deep frown on his face, and a hurt look in

his eyes. His quietness made me feel

uneasy. He finally raised his head and

looked at me. What I could see in his

friendly old face tore at my heart. It

seemed that there were more wrinkles

than I had ever seen before. His

uncombed, iron-gray hair looked almost

white. I noticed that his wrinkled old hand

trembled as he rubbed the wire-stiff

stubble on his chin.

In a low voice that quivered as he

talked, he said, “Billy, I’m sorry about all

this. Truly sorry. I can’t help but feel that

in a way it was my fault.”

“No, Grandpa,” I said, “it wasn’t your

fault. It wasn’t anyone’s fault. It just

happened and no one could help it.”

“I know,” he said, “but if I hadn’t

called Rubin’s bet, nothing would have

happened. I guess when a man gets old he

doesn’t think straight. I shouldn’t have let

those boys get under my skin.”

“Grandpa,” I said, “Rubin and Rainie

could get under anybody’s skin. You

couldn’t help that. Why, they get under

everyone’s skin that gets close to them.”

“Yes, I know,” he said, “but still I acted

like a fool. Billy, I had no idea things

were going to turn out like they did, or I

wouldn’t have called that bet.”

Wanting to change the conversation, I

said, “Grandpa, we won that bet fair and

square, but they took my money anyway.”

I saw the fire come back to his eyes.

This made me feel better. He was more

like the Grandpa I loved.

“That’s all right,” he said. “We’ll just

forget the whole thing.”

He stepped over and laid his hand on

my shoulder. In a solemn voice, he said,

“We won’t talk about this again. Now, I

want you to forget it ever happened

because it wasn’t your fault. Oh, I know

it’s hard for a boy to ever completely

forget something like that. All through

your life you’ll think of it now and then,

but try not to let it bother you, and don’t

ever feel guilty about it. It’s not good for a

young boy to feel that way.”

I nodded my head, thinking if people

would just stop questioning me about

Rubin’s death, maybe I could forget.

Grandpa said, “Well, the accident

wasn’t the only thing I wanted to talk to

you about. I’ve got something else—

something I think will help us both forget a

lot of things.”

The

twinkle

in

Grandpa’s

eyes

reminded me of what my father had said:

“Seems like that old man can cook up

more deals than anyone in the country.”

I didn’t care how many deals Grandpa

cooked up. He was still the best grandpa

in the whole wide world.

“What have you got?” I asked.

“Come over to the store,” he said, “and

I’ll show you.”

On our way over, I heard him mutter, “I

hope this doesn’t turn out like the ghost-

coon hunt.”

On entering the store, Grandpa walked

to the post office department, and came

back with a newspaper in his hand. He

spread it out on the counter.

Pointing with his finger, he said in a

loud voice, “Look, there!”

I looked. The large black letters read:

CHAMPIONSHIP COON HUNT TO BE HELD. My eyes

popped open. Again I read the words.

Grandpa was chuckling.

I said, “Boy, if that isn’t something. A

championship coon hunt.” Wide-eyed, I

asked, “Where are they having this hunt,

and what does it have to do with us?”

Grandpa was getting excited. Off came

his glasses and out came the old red

handkerchief. He blew his breath on the

lens and polished them. He snorted a time

or two, reared back, and almost shouted,

“Do with us? Why it has everything to do

with us. All my life I’ve wanted to go to

one of these big coon hunts. Why I’ve

even dreamed about it. And now the

opportunity has come. Yes, sir, now I can

go.” He paused. “That is, if it’s all right

with you.”

I was dumbfounded. I said, “All right

with me? Why, Grandpa, you know it’s all

right with me, but what have I got to do

with it?”

Grandpa was so excited I thought he

was going to burst a blood vessel.

Talking excitedly, he said, “I’ve got it

all fixed, Billy. We can enter Old Dan and

Little Ann in this championship hunt.”

I was so surprised at what Grandpa had

said I couldn’t utter a word. At first I was

scared and then a wonderful feeling came

over me. I felt the excitement of the big

hunt as it burned its way into my body. I

started breathing like I had been running

for a hundred miles. After several

attempts, I croaked, “Can just any dog be

in this hunt?”

Grandpa

almost

jumped

as

he

answered, “No, sir, not just any hound can

be entered. They have to be the best, and

they have to be registered, too.”

He started talking with his hands.

Pointing to a chair, he said, “Sit down and

I’ll tell you all about it.”

Grandpa calmed down a little and

started talking in a serious voice. “Billy,”

he said, “it takes some doing to have a set

of dogs entered in this hunt. I’ve been

working on this for months. I’ve written

letters on top of letters. I’ve even had

several good friends in town helping me.

You see, I’ve kept a record of all the

coons your dogs have caught, and believe

me, their catch is up there with the best of

them. Now, I have already paid the entry

fee and everything is fixed. All we have to

do is go.”

“Entry fee? How much did it cost?” I

asked.

“You let me worry about that,” he said.

“Now what do you say? Want to give it a

whirl? I understand the winner receives a

gold cup, and you never can tell, we might

come home with it. We have as good a

chance as anyone else.”

Grandpa had me so worked up by this

time, I didn’t think anyone else had any

good hounds but me.

I reared back and blurted, “It’s all right

with me, Grandpa. Just tell me what to

do.”

Grandpa flew out of gear like a Model-

T Ford. He slapped the counter with his

hand. In a pent-up voice, he said, “That’s

the boy! That’s the way I like to hear a

coon hunter talk.”

With a questioning look on his face, he

asked, “Didn’t I see your dogs with you

when you came up?”

“Yes, they followed me,” I said.

“They’re outside.”

“Well, call them in,” he said. “I’ve got

something for them.”

I called to them. Little Ann came in the

store, walking like she was scared. Old

Dan came to the door and stopped. I tried

to coax him in. It was no use. My dogs,

never being allowed in the house, were

scared to come in.

Grandpa walked over to a hoop of

cheese and cut off two chunks about the

size of my fist. He walked to the door,

talking to Old Dan. “What’s the matter,

boy?” he said. “You scared to come in?

Well, that shows you’re a good dog.”

He handed him a piece of the cheese. I

heard it rattle in his throat as he gulped it

down.

Grandpa came back and set Little Ann

up on the counter. He chuckled as he

broke the cheese up in small pieces and

fed her.

“Yes, sir,” he said, “I think we have the

best darn coon hounds in these Ozark

Mountains, and just as sure as shootin’,

we’re going to win that gold cup.”

Grandpa didn’t have to say that. The

way I was feeling, I already had the cup.

All I had to do was go and get it.

Finished with his feeding of Little Ann,

Grandpa said, “Now, let’s see. The hunt

starts on the twenty-third. That’s about—

well, let’s see—this is the seventeenth.”

Counting on his fingers he finally figured

it out. “That’s six days from now,” he said

in a jubilant voice.

I nodded my head.

“We can leave here early on the

morning of the twenty-second,” he said,

“and barring accidents, we should make

the campground in plenty of time for the

grand opening.”

I asked how we were going.

“We’ll go in my buggy,” he said. “I’ll

load the tent and everything the night

before.”

I asked him what he wanted me to

bring.

“Nothing,” he said, “but these two little

hounds, and you be here early; and I

believe I’d let these dogs rest, ‘cause we

want them in tiptop shape when we get

there.”

I saw the thinking wrinkles bunch up on

Grandpa’s forehead.

“You reckon your daddy would like to

go?” he asked. “As late in the fall as it is,

I don’t think he’s too busy, is he?”

“No, our crops are all gathered,” I said.

“We’ve been clearing some of the bottom

land, but that’s almost done now.”

“Well, ask him,” he said. “Tell him I’d

like to have him go.”

“I’ll ask him,” I said, “but you know

how Papa is. The farm comes first with

him.”

“I know,” Grandpa said, “but you ask

him anyway, and tell him what I said.

Now it’s getting late and you had better be

heading for home.”

I was almost to the door when Grandpa

said, “Wait a minute.”

He walked over behind the candy

counter and shook out one of the quarter

sacks. He filled it up to the brim, bounced

it on the counter a few times, and dropped

in a few more gumdrops.

With a twinkle in his eye, and a smile

on his face, he handed it to me saying,

“Save some for your sisters.”

I was so choked up I couldn’t say

anything. I took it and flew out the door,

calling to my dogs.

On my way home I didn’t walk on the

ground. I was way up in the clouds just

skipping along. With a song, I told the

sycamore trees and the popeyed gray

squirrels how happy I was.

Little Ann sensed my happiness. She

pranced along on the trail. With a doggish

grin on her face, she begged for a piece of

candy, which I so gladly gave.

Even Old Dan felt the pleasant

atmosphere. His long red tail fanned the

air. Once he raised his head and bawled. I

stood still and listened to the droning

tones of his deep voice. The sound

seemed to be trapped for an instant in the

thick timber. It rolled around under the tall

white sycamores, beat its way through the

wild cane, and found freedom out over the

clear blue waters of the river. The sound,

following the river’s course, rolled like

the beat of a jungle drum.

As the echo died away in the distance,

silence settled over the bottoms. The gray

squirrels stopped their chattering. The

wild birds quit their singing. I stood still.

No sound could be heard. It seemed that

all the creatures of the wild were holding

their breath. I gazed up to the towering

heights of the tall trees. No leaf was

stirring. The silence seemed strained and

expectant, like a young boy waiting for a

firecracker to explode.

I looked at Old Dan. He was standing

perfectly still, with his right front foot

raised and his long ears fanned open. He

seemed to be listening, and challenging

any living creature to make a noise.

The silence was broken by the “Whee-

e-e-e” of a red-tailed hawk. This seemed

to be a signal. All around me the happy

atmosphere resumed its natural state.

I heard the “Bam, bam, bam” of a

woodpecker high in the top of a box elder

snag. The cry of a kingfisher and the

scream of a bluejay blended perfectly

with the drumlike beat. A barking red

squirrel, glued to the side of a hackberry

tree, kept time to the music with the beat

of his tail.

Each noise I heard and each sight I saw

was very familiar to me but I never grew

tired of listening and watching. They were

a God-sent gift and I enjoyed them all.

As I skipped along, it was hard for me

to realize all the wonderful things that had

happened to me in such a few short years.

I had two of the finest little hounds that

ever bawled on the trail of a ringtail coon.

I had a wonderful mother and father and

three little sisters. I had the best grandpa a

boy ever had, and to top it all, I was going

on a championship coon hunt. It was no

wonder that my heart was bursting with

happiness. Wasn’t I the luckiest boy in the

world?

Everyone was just sitting down to

supper when I got home. My sisters quit

the table for the candy. I told them to

divide it equally. The oldest one asked if I

wanted any of it.

“No,” I said. “I brought it all for you.”

Of course, I didn’t tell them about the four

pieces I had in my pocket.

They thanked me with their clear blue

eyes.

I guess it’s pretty hard for a young boy

to fool his mama. She took one look at me

and called me over. She ruffled up my

hair, kissed me, and said, “If my little

boy’s eyes get any bigger they’re going to

pop right out of his head. Now tell me,

what are you so happy about?”

Before I could say anything, Papa

chuckled and asked, “What’s going on

between you and your grandpa? What are

you and that old man cooking up now?”

As fast as I could talk I started telling

about the big coon hunt. I told how hard

Grandpa had been working to have my

dogs entered, and how he had already

paid my entry fee.

Catching my breath and looking at Papa,

I said, “We’re going in his buggy and he

wants you to go.”

I waited in silence for his reply. Papa

sat there staring off into space, sipping his

coffee and saying nothing. I knew he was

thinking.

In the silence I was sure I could hear

my heart thumping.

I said, “Papa, please go. We’ll have a

lot of fun and besides the winner receives

a big golden cup.”

He scratched his head and said, “Billy,

I’d sure like to go, but I don’t see how I

can with all this work around here.”

I was beginning to think that Papa

wasn’t going to go. Then Mama started

talking.

“Work?” she said. “Why, all the work

is practically done. I don’t know of one

thing you couldn’t put off for a few days.

Why don’t you go? You haven’t been

anywhere since I don’t know when.”

“It’s not only the work I’m thinking of,”

Papa said. “It’s you and the girls.”

“Why, don’t worry about the girls and

me,” Mama said. “We’ll be all right.

Besides, it’ll be several months yet before

I need any help.”

When Mama said this, it dawned on me.

I had been so busy with my coon hunting I

hadn’t noticed anything unusual. Mama’s

tummy was all swelled up. She was going

to have a baby. I felt guilty for not having

noticed. I went over and put my arms

around her and kissed her.

Papa spoke up. “It’s sure going to be a

big hunt,” he said. “I heard something

about it up at the store one day.”

“Grandpa said there would be hunters

there from everywhere,” I said, “and some

of the best coon hounds in the country.”

“Do you think you have a chance to win

the cup?” Papa asked.

I started to answer him when the little

one piped up. “They can’t beat Old Dan

and Little Ann,” she said. “I just bet they

can’t.”

Everyone laughed at her serious

remark. I would have kissed her but she

had candy, corn bread, and molasses all

over her face.

I told Papa I didn’t know how good

those dogs were, but there was one thing I

did know. If they beat mine, they would

have to hunt harder than they ever had

before.

After I had had my say about the dogs, a

silence settled over the dining room.

Everyone was looking at Papa and waiting

for his answer.

I saw a pleased smile spread over his

face. He stood up. “All right, I’ll go,” he

said, “and, by golly, we’ll bring that gold

cup back, too.”

My sisters started clapping their hands

and squealing with delight. A satisfied

smile spread over my mother’s face.

At that moment I’m sure no boy in the

world could have been happier than I.

Tears of happiness rolled down my

cheeks. Mama wiped them away with her

apron.

In the midst of all the excitement, my

little sister, saying not a word, climbed

down from her chair. No one said

anything. We just watched her.

Still clutching a spoon in her small

hand, she came around the table and

walked up to me. Looking down at the

floor, in a bashful voice, she asked, “Can I

have the gold cup?”

Putting my finger under her sticky little

chin, I tilted her head up. I smiled as I

looked into her clear blue eyes. I said,

“Honey, if I win it, I’ll give it to no one

but you.”

I had to cross my heart and hope to die

several times before she was satisfied.

Back in her chair she gloated over the

others. “You just wait and see,” she said.

“It’ll be all mine, nobody’s but mine, and

I’ll put my banty eggs in it.”

“Silly, you don’t put banty eggs in a

gold cup,” the oldest one said. “They’re

just made to look at.”

That night I dreamed about gold cups,

little red hounds, and coons as big as rain

barrels. Once I woke myself up whooping

to my dogs.

The next few days were busy ones for

me. Knowing that Papa and I would be

gone for several days, I did everything I

could to make things convenient for

Mama. I chopped a large pile of wood and

stacked it close to the kitchen door. To

make it easy for her to feed our stock, I cut

some poles from the hillside and boxed up

one of the stalls in the barn. I filled it full

of hay so she wouldn’t have to climb the

ladder to the loft.

Papa laid down the law to my sisters

about being good and helping Mama while

we were gone.

The day before we were to leave, I was

as nervous as a June bug in a henhouse.

The day seemed endless. A few of the

miserable hours were spent talking to my

dogs. I told them all about the big hunt and

how important it was.

“Now if you don’t win the golden cup,”

I said, “I won’t be mad because I know

you will do your best.”

Old Dan wouldn’t even look at me, and

paid no attention to what I said. He was

sulking because I hadn’t been taking him

hunting. When I talked to Little Ann, it

was different. She listened and seemed to

understand everything I said.

I dreaded to go to bed that night. I

thought sleep would be impossible. I must

have been more tired than I thought I was.

I fell asleep almost immediately. Old Red,

our rooster, woke me at daybreak,

crowing his fool head off.

It was a beautiful morning, clear and

frosty.

After a good breakfast, we kissed

Mama goodbye and started for the store.

I’m sure there were a lot of coon

hunters in the Ozarks, but on that morning

none could have felt as big and important

as I. Walking along by the side of my

father, I threw out my chest and tried hard

to keep pace with his long strides. He

noticed and laughed.

“You’ll have to grow a little bit,” he

said, “before you can take steps that long.”

I didn’t say anything. I just smiled.

Hearing a noise overhead, I looked up.

The gray ones were winging their way

southward. I listened to their talking and

wondered what they were saying.

Looking to the mountains around us, I

saw that the mysterious artist who comes

at night had paid us a visit. I wondered

how he could paint so many different

colors in one night; red, wine, yellow, and

rust.

My dogs were trotting along in front of

us. I smiled at the way their hind quarters

shifted to the right. Little Ann would jump

and bounce and try to get Old Dan to play,

but the solemn old boy just jogged along,

heedless of everything.

“You know,” Papa said, “she doesn’t

even act like a hound. She is bouncing and

playing all the time. Why, she acts more

like a little pup than a hound.”

“Yes, I know,” I said. “I’ve noticed that

myself, but you know one thing, Papa,

she’s the smartest dog I’ve ever seen.

Why, some of the things she does are

almost unbelievable.”

“Yes, I know,” said Papa, “but still it’s

strange, very strange.”

“There’s only one thing wrong with her,

Papa,” I said.

“Yea, what’s that?” he asked.

“You won’t believe it,” I said, “but

she’s gun-shy.”

“Gun-shy? How do you know she’s

gun-shy?” Papa asked.

“I didn’t know for a long time,” I said,

“until one day when I was hoeing corn

down in the field by the old slough. She

and Old Dan were digging in a bank after

a ground hog. Across the river some

fishermen started shooting a gun. It scared

Little Ann, and she came running to me,

shaking all over.”

“Aw,” Papa said, “maybe you just

thought she was scared.”

“No, I didn’t, Papa,” I said. “It

happened again up at the store one day.

Grandpa shot a chicken hawk. When the

gun went off, it scared her half to death.

No, she’s gun-shy all right.”

“Aw, well,” Papa said, “that doesn’t

mean anything. A lot of dogs are afraid of

guns.”

“I know,” I said, “but you wouldn’t

think she would be that way. I believe if I

had a gun of my own I could break her of

being gun-shy.”

Papa looked at me. He said, “From

what your mother says, you won’t be

getting a gun for some time yet.”

“Yes, I know,” I said.

When we reached the store we saw the

team was already hitched to the buggy and

was standing in front of the store. Grandpa

had loaded the tent and several boxes of

groceries.

I had never seen him in such high

spirits. He slapped Papa on the back,

saying, “I’m sure glad you could go with

us. It’ll do you good to get out once in a

while.”

Papa laughed and said, “It looked like I

had to go or have everyone in the family

mad at me.”

Looking in the buggy I saw my ax. I

didn’t think I ever wanted to see it again,

but for some reason it didn’t look like I

thought it would. There was no blood on it

and it looked harmless enough laying there

all clean and bright.

Grandpa saw me looking at it. He came

over.

“I kept it a few days,” he said, “just in

case the marshal wanted to ask some

questions. Everything seems to be all right

now, and we may need a good ax on this

hunt.”

Grandpa sensed how I felt about the ax.

He waited in silence for my answer.

The excitement of the hunt was so

strong in me, even the sight of the ax

brought back only a fleeting remembrance

of Rubin’s accident.

I said, “Yes, we will need one.

Besides, it’s a good one and there’s no

use in throwing it away.”

Grandpa laughed, reached over, and

screwed my cap around on my head,

saying, “That the boy, that’s what I wanted

you to say. Now, you better go to the barn

and get some hay and make a bed in the

buggy box for your dogs.”

“Aw, Grandpa,” I said, “they can walk.

They don’t ever get tired; besides, they’re

used to walking.”

“Walk!” Grandpa almost shouted.

“They’re not going to walk. No, sir, not if

I can help it. You want them to be footsore

when we get there?”

Papa chuckled and said, “We can’t win

a gold cup with two sore-footed hounds,

can we?”

“Of course not,” Grandpa said. “Now,

you go and get that hay like I said.”

As I turned to go to the barn I couldn’t

help but smile. It made me feel good to

have my papa and grandpa so concerned

about my dogs.

I had taken only a few steps when

Grandpa said, “Oh, wait a minute.”

I stopped and turned around.

Walking up to me and glancing toward

the house as he did, he whispered, “In that

empty kraut barrel in the harness room,

there’s a jug of corn liquor. Cover it up in

the hay so your grandma won’t see it, and

bring it back with you.”

With a twinkle in his eye, he said, “You

never can tell when we’ll need some

medicine.”

I knew my father wouldn’t drink any of

the liquor, but if Grandpa wanted to take

along a whole barrel, it was all right with

me.

Just when I thought we were ready to

leave, Grandma came bustling out.

Grandpa got nervous. He whispered

and asked, “Did you hide the jug good?”

I nodded my head.

Grandma handed Grandpa a pair of

long-handle underwear and a scarf,

saying, “I knew you’d forget something.”

Grandpa snorted but knew there was no

use arguing with her.

She started picking around in the

groceries, asking about salt, pepper, and

matches.

“Nannie, we’ve got everything,” he

said. “You must think I’m a baby and

don’t know how to pack a grub box.”

“A baby,” Grandma snorted. “Why,

you’re worse than a baby. At least they

have a little sense. You don’t have any at

all. An old codger like you out chasing a

coon all over the hills.”

At her biting remark, I thought Grandpa

was going to blow up. He snorted like

Daisy, our milk cow, when she had seen a

booger.

I crawled up in the buggy box with my

dogs and hung my feet out.

Grandma came over and asked me

about warm clothes. I told her I had

plenty.

She kissed me good-bye and we were

on our way.

XV

OVER A DIM ROCKY ROAD, IN A NORTHEASTERLY

DIRECTION, our buggy moved on.

I noticed that the road stayed at the edge

of the foothills, but always in sight of the

river.

About the middle of the afternoon we

stopped at a small stream to water the

team. Papa asked Grandpa if he intended

to go all the way to the campground before

stopping.

“No,” he said, “I figure to put up for the

night when we reach Bluebird Creek.

With a good early start in the morning we

can make the campgrounds in plenty of

time to pitch our tent and set up camp.”

Late that evening we reached Bluebird

Creek. We didn’t set up our tent. With a

tarp we made a lean- to and built a large

fire out in front of it.

While Grandpa fed and watered the

team, Papa and I carried our bedding to

the shelter and made down our beds.

Grandpa said, “While we’re cooking

supper, you see to your dogs. Feed them

and fix them a warm bed.”

“I figure to cook them some corn-meal

mush,” I said. “That’s what they’re used to

eating.”

“Mush!” Grandpa growled. “They’re

not going to have mush, not if I can help

it.”

He walked over to a grocery box,

mumbling as he did, “Mush! A hound can’t

hunt on a bellyful of that stuff.”

He came back and handed me two large

cans of corned-beef hash, saying, “Here.

Reckon they’ll eat this.”

I wanted to hug my old grandpa’s neck.

“Sure, Grandpa,” I said, “they’ll love

that.”

Opening one of the cans, I dumped it out

on a piece of bark in front of Old Dan. He

sniffed at it and refused to eat. I laughed,

for I knew why. While I was opening the

other can, Grandpa came over.

“What’s the matter,” he asked. “Won’t

he eat it?”

“Sure, Grandpa,” I said, “he’ll eat, but

not before Little Ann gets her share.”

With the second can opened, I fed her

on another piece of bark. Both of them

started eating at the same time.

With an astonished look on his face,

Grandpa exclaimed, “Well, I’ll be darned.

I never saw anything like that. Why, I

never saw a hound that wouldn’t eat. Did

you train them to do that?”

“No, Grandpa,” I said. “They’ve

always been that way. They won’t take

anything away from each other, and

everything they do, they do it as one.”

Papa had overheard our conversation.

He said, “You think that’s strange. You

should have seen what I saw one day.

“One of the girls threw two cold

biscuits out in the back yard to Old Dan.

He stood and looked at them for a bit,

then, picking both of them up in his mouth,

he trotted around the house. I followed

just to see what he was going to do. He

walked up in front of the doghouse, laid

them down, and growled; not like he was

mad. It was a strange kind of a growl.

Little Ann came out of the doghouse and

each of them ate a biscuit. Now, I saw this

with my own eyes. Believe me, those dogs

are close to each other—real close.”

After Papa had stopped talking, silence

settled over the camp.

Grandpa stood staring at my dogs. In a

slow voice, as if he were picking his

words, he said, “You know, I’ve always

felt like there was something strange about

those dogs. I don’t know just what it is,

and I can’t exactly put my finger on it, yet I

can feel it. Maybe it’s just my imagination.

I don’t rightly know.”

Turning to my father, he said, “Did you

ever notice the way they watch this boy?

They see every move he makes.”

Papa said, “Yes, I’ve noticed a lot of

things they have done. In fact, I could tell

you of a few that you would never

believe, but right now here’s something

you had better believe. Supper is ready.”

While I was helping myself to hot

dutch-oven corn bread, fried potatoes, and

fresh side meat, Grandpa poured the

coffee. Instead of the two cups I expected

to see, he set out three and filled them to

the brim with the strong black liquid.

I had never been allowed to drink

coffee at home and didn’t exactly know

what to do. I glanced at Papa. He seemed

too busy with his eating to pay any

attention to me. Taking the bull by the

horns, I reached over and ran my finger

through the cup’s handle. I held my breath

as I walked over and sat down by a post

oak stump. Nothing was said. Grandpa

and Papa paid no attention to what I did.

My head swelled up as big as a number-

four washtub. I thought, “I’m not only big

enough to help Papa with the farm. Now

I’m big enough to drink coffee.”

With supper over and the dishes

washed, Grandpa said, “Well, we had

better turn in as I want to get an early start

in the morning.”

Long after Grandpa and Papa had fallen

asleep, I lay thinking of the big hunt. My

thoughts were interrupted when the

wonders of night life began to stir in the

silence around us.

From a ridge on our right a red fox

started barking. He was curious and, in his

small way, challenging the intruders that

had dared to stop in his wild domain.

From far back in the flinty hills, the

monotonous call of a hoot owl floated

down in the silent night. It was the mating

call and was answered from a distant

mountain.

I could hear the stamping feet of our

horses, and the grinding, crunching noise

made by their strong teeth as they ate the

hard, yellow kernels of corn in their feed

boxes. A night hawk screamed as he

winged his way through the starlit night.

An eerie screech from a tree close by

made shivers run up and down my spine. It

was a screech owl.

I didn’t like to hear the small owl, for

there was a superstition in the mountains

concerning them. It was said that if you

heard one owl it meant nothing at all, but

if you heard more than one, it meant bad

luck.

I lay and listened to the eerie twittering

sound. It was coming from the left of our

camp. The creepy noise stopped, and for

several moments there was silence. When

next I heard the cry, it was coming from

the right. I sat up in alarm. Had I heard

two owls?

My movement had awakened Grandpa.

In a sleepy voice, he asked, “What’s the

matter? Can’t you sleep? What are you

sitting up like that for?”

“Grandpa, I heard two screech owls,” I

said.

Grunting and mumbling, he sat up.

Rubbing the sleep from his eyes, he said,

“You heard two screech owls. Why, that’s

nothing. I’ve heard two—oh, I see. You’re

thinking of the bad-luck superstition.

There’s nothing to that; nothing at all.

Now you lie down and go to sleep.

Tomorrow is going to be a big day.”

I tried hard to fall asleep, but couldn’t. I

couldn’t get the owls out of my mind. Had

I really heard two? Were we going to

have bad luck? Surely nothing bad could

happen. Not on such a wonderful hunt.

I found peace in my mind by telling

myself that the owl had changed trees.

Yes, that was it. He had simply flown out

of one tree to another.

The next morning, while having

breakfast, Grandpa started kidding me

about the screech owls.

“I wish you could have caught one of

those owls last night,” he said. “We could

have boiled him in our coffee pot. I’ve

heard there is nothing like strong hoot-owl

coffee.”

“It wasn’t a hoot owl, Grandpa,” I said.

“It was a screech owl. I don’t know for

sure if I heard one or two. It could have

been just one.” Pointing to a small red

oak, I said, “I think the first time I heard

him, he was over there. The next time, it

was over in that direction. Maybe he

changed trees. I sure hope so.”

Grandpa saw I was bothered. “You

don’t believe that hogwash superstition,

do you? Bad luck! Baw, there’s nothing to

it.”

Papa laughed, and said, “These

mountains are full of that jinx stuff. If a

man believed it all, he’d go crazy.”

The encouraging words from Papa and

Grandpa helped some, but there was still

some doubt. It’s hard for a young boy to

completely forget things like that.

Breakfast over, and our gear stowed

back in the buggy, we left Bluebird Creek.

On that day Grandpa drove a little

faster than he had on the previous one. I

was glad of this, for I was anxious to

reach the campground.

About noon he stopped the team. I heard

him ask Papa, “Is this Black Fox

Hollow?”

“No,” Papa said. “This is Waterfall.

Black Fox is the next one over. Why?”

“Well,”

Grandpa

said,

“there’s

supposed to be a white flag in the mouth

of Black Fox. That’s where we leave the

road. The camp is in the river bottoms.”

By this time I was so excited, I stood up

in the buggy box so I could get a better

view.

“Maybe you ought to step them up a

little, Grandpa,” I said. “It’s getting pretty

late.”

Papa joined in with his loud laughter.

“You just take it easy,” he said. “We’ll get

there in plenty of time. Besides, these

mares can’t fly.”

I saw the flag first. “There it is,

Grandpa,” I shouted.

“Where?” he asked.

“Over there. See, tied on that

grapevine.”

As we left the main road, I heard Papa

say, “Boy, look at all those tracks. Sure

has been a lot of traveling on this road.”

“That smoke over there must be coming

from the camps,” Grandpa said.

When we came in sight of the camp, I

couldn’t believe what I saw. I stared in

amazement. I had never seen so many

people at one gathering. Tents were

spread out over an acre and a half of

ground; all colors, shapes, and sizes.

There were odd-looking cars, buggies,

wagons, and saddle horses.

I heard Grandpa say almost in a

whisper, “I knew there would be a lot of

people here but I never expected so

many.”

I saw the astonished look on my father’s

face.

Off to one side of the camp, under a

large black gum tree, we set up our tent. I

tied my dogs to the buggy, and fixed a nice

bed for them under it. After everything

was taken care of, I asked if I could look

around the camp.

“Sure,” Grandpa said. “Go any place

you want to go, only don’t get in anyone’s

way.”

I started walking through the large

camp. Everyone was friendly. Once I

heard a voice say, “That’s the boy who

owns the two little red hounds. I’ve heard

they’re pretty good.”

If my head had gotten any bigger, I

know it would have burst.

I walked on, as straight as a canebrake

cane.

I looked at the hounds. They were tied

in pairs here and there. I had seen many

coon hounds but none that could equal

these. There were redbones, blue ticks,

walkers, and blood hounds. I marveled at

their beauty. All were spotlessly clean

with slick and glossy coats. I saw the

beautiful leather leashes and brass-

studded collars.

I thought of my dogs. They were tied

with small cotton ropes, and had collars

made from old checkline leather.

As I passed from one set of dogs to

another, I couldn’t help but wonder if I

had a chance to win. I knew that in the

veins of these hounds flowed the purest of

breeded blood. No finer coon hounds

could be found anywhere. They came from

the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee, the

bayou country of Louisiana, the Red River

bottoms of Texas, and the flinty hills of the

Ozarks.

Walking back through the camp, I could

feel the cold fingers of doubt squeezing

my heart. One look at my dogs drove all

doubt away. In the eyes of Little Ann it

seemed I could read this message: “Don’t

worry. Just wait. We’ll show them.”

That night, Grandpa said, “Tomorrow

they’ll have a contest for the best-looking

hound. Which one are you going to enter?”

I told him I didn’t think I’d enter either

one of my dogs. They were so little. I

didn’t think they had a chance.

Grandpa got all huffed up. He said, “It

doesn’t make any difference how little

they are. They’re coon hounds, aren’t

they?”

I asked him if he had seen any of the

other hounds.

He said, “Yes, I’ve seen them all. Sure

they’re big and good dogs, too, but it

makes no difference. I don’t care if your

dogs are no bigger than a snuff can. They

still have a chance. Now, which one are

you going to enter?”

I couldn’t decide. I said, “I’ll think it

over tonight and let you know tomorrow.”

The next morning when I stepped

outside the tent I saw men everywhere.

They were combing and brushing their

dogs, and getting them pruned for the

beauty contest. Beautiful combs and

brushes were used to brush expensive oils

into their glossy hair.

Going over to my dogs, I stood and

looked at them. I started to untie Old Dan

but, taking a closer look at him, I could

see he could never win a beauty contest.

His face and ears were a mass of old

scars, caused from the many fights with

tough old coons and bobcats. I held his

head in my hands and felt sorry for him,

but loved him that much more.

I looked Little Ann over and couldn’t

see any scars. I laughed because I knew

why. She was too smart to walk right up in

the face of a fight. She would wait until

Old Dan took hold and then dart in.

I untied her rope and walked her over

to our tent.

My father and grandfather were gone.

No doubt they were over in some tent

visiting old friends and making new ones.

Looking around to find something I

could use to groom my dog, I saw

Grandpa’s open suitcase. There, right on

top, was the very thing I needed, his

beautiful bone-handled hairbrush and his

ivory comb. Picking them up, I turned

them over and over in my hand.

Little Ann stood looking at me.

Impulsively I reached down and raked her

from shoulder to hip with the brush. She

seemed to like it. I knew I shouldn’t do it,

but I decided to use them.

Knowing I had no oils, I got some butter

from our grocery box. With the homemade

butter and Grandpa’s hair set, I brushed

her until she shone. All the time I was

grooming her, she tried to lick the butter

from my hands.

The job completed, I stepped back and

inspected her. I was surprised at the

change. Her short red hair glistened and

every one was in perfect place.

Shaking my finger at her, I said, “If you

lay down and roll, I’ll wear you out,”

although I knew I wouldn’t.

Hearing a lot of movement outside, I

looked out. Men were setting their dogs on

a long table which had been built in the

center of the campground. Leading Little

Ann to it, I picked her up and set her on

the table, too.

I told her to act like a lady. She wagged

her tail as though she understood. I untied

the rope and stepped back.

After the dogs were all lined up, the

judging started. Four judges walked

around and around the table, looking at

them from all angles. When one of them

would point at a hound, he was taken

down and eliminated from the contest.

Dog after dog was disqualified. Little Ann

was still on the table.

My eyes were wide, my throat dry, and

my heart thumping. One judge stopped in

front of Little Ann. My heart stopped, too.

Reaching over, he patted her on the head.

Turning to me, he asked, “Is this your

dog?”

I couldn’t speak. I just nodded my head.

He said, “She’s a beautiful hound.”

He walked on down the line. My heart

started beating again.

There were eight dogs left. Little Ann

was still holding her own. Then there

were four. I was ready to cry. Two more

were taken down. Little Ann and a big

walker hound owned by a Mr. Kyle were

the only ones left. The judges couldn’t

seem to make up their minds.

Everyone started shouting, “Walk them!

Walk them!”

I didn’t know what they meant.

Mr. Kyle and I were told to go to one

end of the table. Our dogs were placed at

the other end. Mr. Kyle snapped his

fingers and called to his dog.

The big hound started walking toward

his master. What a beautiful sight it was.

He walked like a king. His body was stiff

and straight, his head high in the air, his

large muscles quivered and jerked under

his glossy coat, but something went

wrong. Just before he reached the end, he

broke his stride, turned, and jumped down

from the table.

A low murmur ran through the crowd.

It was my turn. Three times I tried to

call to Little Ann. Words just wouldn’t

come out. My throat was too dry. The

vocal cords refused to work, but I could

snap my fingers. That was all I needed.

She started toward me. I held my breath.

There was silence all around me.

As graceful as any queen, with her head

high in the air, and her long red tail arched

in a perfect rainbow, my little dog walked

down the table. With her warm gray eyes

staring straight at me, on she came.

Walking up to me, she laid her head on my

shoulder. As I put my arms around her, the

crowd exploded.

During the commotion I felt hands

slapping me on the back, and heard the

word “congratulations” time after time.

The head judge came over and made a

speech. Handing me a small silver cup, he

said, “Congratulations, son. It was justly

won.”

The tears came rolling. I gathered my

dog up in my arms and walked to our tent.

Grandpa followed, proudly carrying the

cup.

That evening the head judge stepped up

on the table. He had a small box in his

hand. He shouted, “Over here, men! I have

some announcements to make.”

We all gathered around.

In a loud voice, he said, “Gentlemen,

the contest will start tonight. I’m sure most

of you men have been in these hunts

before. For those of you who haven’t, I

will explain the rules. Each night five sets

of dogs will be taken out to hunt. A judge

will go along with each pair of hounds.

Every morning, the judges will turn in that

night’s catch. The two hounds that tree the

most

coons

will

qualify

for

the

championship runoff. The other four sets

will be eliminated from the hunt. Of

course, if there is a tie, both sets will

qualify. On the following nights, only

those hounds tying the first night’s score,

or getting more, will be in the runoff.

“Now, gentlemen, this hunt must be

carried out in a sportsmanlike way. If the

coon is treed where he can’t be caught,

such as in a bluff, it will not be counted.

You must catch the coon, skin it, and turn

the hide over to your judge.

“You are allowed to take an ax, a

lantern, and a gun with bird shot, which

you can use to get a coon out of a tree.

“Twenty-five sets of hounds have been

entered in the hunt. In this box, I have

twenty-five cards. Everyone in the contest

will now line up for the drawing. The

card you draw will tell you what night

your hounds are to hunt.”

Walking along in the line, I noticed the

beautiful red coats, the caps, and the soft

leather boots worn by the other hunters. I

felt out of place in my faded blue overalls,

old sheepskin coat, and scuffed and worn

shoes, but to the wonderful men it made no

difference. They treated me like a man,

and even talked to me like a man.

When it came my time to draw, my hand

was shaking so hard I could hardly get it

in the box. Pulling the card out, I saw I

had drawn the fourth night.

After the hunters had left, we stood

around our campfires sipping strong black

coffee and listening to the baying of the

hounds. Time after time, we heard the tree

bark.

Once two hounds came close to the

camp, hot on a trail. We listened to their

steady bawling. All at once they stopped.

After several minutes of waiting, a

hunter said, “You know what? That old

coon took to the river and in some way

has fooled those dogs.”

Another one said, “Yes, sir, he sure

has.”

A friendly hunter looked at me and

asked, “Do you think he could have fooled

your dogs?”

Thinking his question over, I said, “You

know, sometimes when I am hunting, away

back in the mountains or down on the

river, I sing a little song I made up myself.

One of the verses goes like this:

You can swim the river,

Old Mister Ringtail,

And play your tricks out

one by one.

It won’t do any good, Old

Mister Ringtail,

My Little Ann knows every

one.

The hunters roared with laughter. Some

slapped me on the back.

Tired and sleepy, but with a smile on

my face, I went off to bed.

The next morning two blue tick hounds,

from the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee,

came out in the lead with three big coons

to their credit. The other four sets were

eliminated.

The following morning all five sets of

dogs were eliminated. None had even tied

the blue ticks, although two sets had gotten

two coons, and one of these had treed a

third one in a bluff.

That day, while eating dinner, my

grandfather asked me if my dogs had ever

treed three coons in one night.

I said, “Yes, four different times, but

that’s all.”

“Where do you think we should hunt on

our night?” Papa asked.

I told him if we could get our judge to

go with us in the buggy, we would be

better off if we could go far downriver

and get out of the range where other dogs

had hunted.

He said, “That’s a good idea. I’ll go to

see the judges about it.”

While I was washing the dishes,

Grandpa said, “I think I’ll shave.”

I should’ve left the tent then, but I

wasn’t done with my dish-washing.

With a pin, Grandpa hung a small

mirror on the tent wall. After much

snorting, mumbling, and screwing of his

face this way and that, the job was

completed. Dabbing a little water on his

iron-gray hair, he reached for his brush

and comb.

From the corner of my eye I watched

him. I had tried to clean the beautiful

brush but hadn’t been able to get all the

short red hair from it.

With two fingers, Grandpa pulled some

of the hair from the bristles. Holding it in

front of him, he looked it over carefully.

Then, bending over close to the mirror,

peeking over his glasses, he inspected his

head. Straightening up, he looked at the

brush again. Turning around quickly, he

looked straight at me and said, “Say,

young—”

Not waiting for anything more, I

scooted for the door. Crawling under the

buggy, I lay down between my dogs. I

knew he wouldn’t be mad at me, but it

would be best to stay away for a while.

The third night, the blue ticks were tied

by two black and tan hounds from the

bayou country of Louisiana.

All that day I was restless. I prowled

through the camp. Every little while I

would go and see how Old Dan and Little

Ann were. Once I took two weenies from

our groceries. I heated them and gave them

to my dogs for a treat. Old Dan

swallowed his down in one gulp, and

looked at me as if to say, “Is that all?”

Little Ann ate hers in a ladylike way. I

could have sworn I saw a small grin on

her face.

Grandpa was hopping around like a

grasshopper, going here and there. Once,

passing a tent, I heard his voice. I knew he

was bragging about my dogs. I smiled to

myself.

Another hunter stopped me and asked,

“Is it true that your hounds have treed six

coons in one night, three up in one tree, or

is that old man just blowing off steam?”

I told him my grandfather had a little

steam, but he was the best grandpa a boy

ever had.

He patted me on the head, turned, and

walked away laughing.

XVI

IN THE AFTERNOON OUR JUDGE CAME OVER AND

INTRODUCED himself. He told us he’d be

going with us that night.

About sundown we piled in our buggy

and drove a few miles downriver. I

noticed other hunters doing the same thing.

Everyone was trying to get away from the

already-hunted territory.

It was dark by the time Grandpa

stopped. I untied the ropes from my dogs.

Little Ann reared up on me and whined.

Old Dan walked off a few yards, stretched

his body, and dragged his claws through

the soft bottom soil. Opening his mouth, he

let out one loud bawl, and then

disappeared in the thick timber. Little Ann

was right on his heels.

We took off after them.

Grandpa got nervous. He said to me,

“Don’t you think you ought to whoop to

them?”

I told him to wait a little while. There

would be plenty of time for whooping.

He snorted and said he thought a hunter

always whooped to his dogs.

“I do, Grandpa,” I said, “but not before

they strike a trail.”

We walked on. Every now and then we

would stop and listen. I could hear the

loud snuffing of Old Dan. Once we caught

a glimpse of Little Ann as she darted

across an opening that was bathed in

moonlight. She was as silent as a ghost

and as quick as a flitting shadow.

Papa said, “It sure is a beautiful night

for hunting.”

The judge said, “You can’t beat these

Ozark Mountain nights for beauty. I don’t

care where you go.”

Grandpa started to say something. His

voice was drowned out by the bell-like

cry of Little Ann.

In a whisper, I said, “Come on, Dan.

Hurry and help her.”

As if in answer to my words, his deep

voice hammered its way up through the

river bottoms. I felt the blood tingling in

my veins. That wonderful feeling that only

a hunter knows crept over my body.

Looking over at Grandpa, I said, “Now

you can whoop.”

Jerking off his hat and throwing back

his head, he let out a yell. It wasn’t a

whoop, or a screech, it was about halfway

in between. Everyone laughed.

The coon was running upriver toward

our campground. We turned and followed.

I could tell by the dogs’ voices that they

were running side by side, and were hot

on the trail. Closing my eyes, I could

almost see them running, bodies stretched

to their fullest length, legs pounding up

and down, white steam rolling from their

hot breath in the frosty night.

Grandpa got tangled up in some

underbrush, and lost his hat and

spectacles. It took us a while to find the

glasses. Papa said something about getting

them wired on with bailing wire. Grandpa

snorted. The judge laughed.

The coon crossed the river and ran on

upstream. Soon my dogs were out of

hearing distance. I told Papa we had better

stay on our side of the river and keep

going until we could hear them again.

Twenty minutes later we heard them

coming back. We stopped.

“I think they have crossed back to our

side,” I said.

All at once the voices of my dogs were

drowned out by a loud roar.

“What in the world was that?” Grandpa

said.

“I don’t know,” the judge said. “Reckon

it was wind or thunder?”

About that time we heard it again.

The judge started laughing. “I know

now what it is,” he said. “Those hounds

have run that coon right back by our camp.

The noise we heard was the other hunters

whooping to them.”

Everyone laughed.

A few minutes later I heard my dogs

bawling treed. On reaching the tree, Papa

ran his hand back under his coat. He

pulled out Grandpa’s gun.

“That’s a funny-looking gun,” the judge

said. “It’s a 410-gauge pistol, isn’t it?”

“It’s the very thing for this kind of

work,” Papa said. “You couldn’t kill a

coon with it if you tried, especially if

you’re using bird shot. All it will do is

sting his hide a little.”

At the crack of the gun, the coon gave a

loud squall and jumped. My dogs lost no

time in killing him.

We skinned the coon, and soon were on

our way again.

The next time my dogs treed, they were

across the river from us. Finding a riffle,

we pulled off our shoes and started

across.

Grandpa very gingerly started picking

his way. His tender old feet moved from

one smooth rock to another. Everything

was fine until we reached midstream,

where the current was much swifter. He

stepped on a loose round rock. It rolled

and down he went.

As the cold river water touched his

body, he let out a yell that could have been

heard for miles. He looked so funny we

couldn’t keep from laughing.

Papa and the judge helped him to his

feet. Laughing every step of the way, we

finally reached the other side. Grandpa

kept going in his wet clothes until we

reached the tree where the dogs were.

After killing the coon, we built a large

fire so Grandpa could dry his clothes.

He’d get up as close to the fire as he

could, and turn this way and that. He

looked so funny standing there with his

long underwear steaming. I started rolling

with laughter.

He looked over at me and snapped,

“What’s so funny?”

I said, “Nothing.”

“Well, why are you laughing?” he said.

At this remark, Papa and the judge

laughed until their eyes watered.

Mumbling and grumbling, Grandpa

said, “If you fellows were as cold as I am,

you wouldn’t be laughing.”

We knew we shouldn’t be laughing, but

we couldn’t help ourselves.

The judge looked at his watch. “It’s

after three o’clock,” he said. “Do you

think they’ll tree another one?”

As if to throw the words back in the

judge’s face, Old Dan opened up. I stood

up and whooped. “Whoo-e-e! Get him,

Dan! Get him! Put him up a little tree.”

There was a mad scramble. Grandpa

tried to put his britches on backwards.

The judge and Papa ran over to help him

with his shoes. Each one tried to put a

shoe on the wrong foot. I was laughing so

hard I could do nothing.

A hundred yards from the fire, I

realized we had forgotten the coonskins. I

ran back for them.

My dogs had jumped the coon in

swampland. He tore out for the river

bottoms. I could tell they were close to

him by their fast bawling. All at once their

baying stopped. We stood still and

listened. Old Dan bawled treed a few

more times and then stopped.

Grandpa asked, “What’s happened?”

I told him the coon had probably pulled

some kind of trick.

Coming up to my dogs, we saw they

were working up and down an old rail

fence. We stood and watched. Every now

and then, Old Dan would rear up on a

large hackberry tree that was standing

about seven feet from the fence and bawl

treed.

As yet Little Ann had not bawled the

tree bark. We watched her. She was

working everywhere. She climbed up on

the rail fence and followed its zigzag

course until she disappeared in the

darkness.

I told Papa I was sure the coon had

walked the rail fence and in some way had

fooled my dogs.

Old Dan would keep coming back to the

hackberry tree. He would rear up on it and

bawl treed. We walked up to him.

Looking the tree over, we could see that

the coon wasn’t in it.

The judge said, “It looks like he has

them fooled.”

“Maybe you had better call them off,”

Grandpa said. “We can go someplace else

and hunt. We’ve got to get one more coon,

even if I have to tree it myself.”

For some reason, no one laughed at his

remark.

“It’s almost daylight,” Papa said.

“Yes, that’s what has me worried,” I

said. “We don’t have time to do any more

hunting. If we lose this one, we’re beat.”

Hearing the word beat, Grandpa began

to fidget. He asked me, “What do you

think happened? How did that coon fool

them?”

“I don’t know for sure,” I said. “He

walked that rail fence. The hackberry tree

has something to do with his trick, but I

don’t know what.”

“Son,” the judge said, “I wouldn’t feel

too badly if I were you. I’ve seen some of

the very best hounds fooled by a smart old

coon.”

Regardless of all the discouraging talk,

the love and belief I had in my little red

hounds never faltered. I could see them

now and then, leaping over old logs,

tearing through the underbrush, sniffing

and searching for the lost trail. My heart

swelled with pride. I whooped, urging

them on.

In a low voice, the judge said, “I’ll say

one thing. They don’t give up easily.”

Birds began to chirp all around us. The

sky took on a light gray color. Tiny dim

stars were blinking the night away.

“It looks like we’re beat,” Papa said.

“It’s getting daylight.”

At that moment, the loud clear voice of

a redbone hound, bawling treed, rang

through the river bottoms. It was the voice

of Little Ann.

Sucking in a mouthful of air, I held it. I

could feel my heart pounding against my

ribs. I closed my eyes tight and gritted my

teeth to keep the tears from coming.

“Let’s go to them,” Grandpa said.

“No, wait a minute,” I said.

“Why?” he asked.

“Wait till Old Dan gets there,” I said.

“It’s daylight now, and if we walk up to

the tree, the coon will jump out. It’s hard

to keep a coon in a tree after daylight.

Let’s wait until Old Dan gets there. Then

if he jumps, he won’t have a chance to get

away.”

“The boy’s right,” the judge said. “It’s

hard to keep a coon in a tree after

daybreak.”

Just then we heard Old Dan. His deep

voice shattered the morning silence.

Searching for the lost trail, he had crossed

the fence and worked his way out into an

old field. Turning around, we saw him

coming. He was a red blur in the gray

morning shadows. Coming to the rail

fence, and without breaking his stride, he

raised his body into the air. About

halfway over and while still in the air he

bawled.

Hitting the ground with a loud grunt, he

ran past us. Everyone whooped to him.

Ahead was a deep washout about ten feet

wide. On the other side was a canebrake.

His long red body, stretched to its fullest

length, seemed to float in the air as he

sailed over it. We could hear the tall

stalks rattling as he plowed his way

through them. A bunch of sleepy snow

birds rose from the thick cane, flitted

over, and settled in a row on the old rail

fence.

Nearing the tree, we could see it was a

tall sycamore, and there high in the top

was the coon.

Grandpa threw a fit. He hopped around

whooping and hollering. He threw his old

hat down on the ground and jumped up and

down on it. Then he ran over and kissed

Little Ann right on the head.

After we killed and skinned the coon,

the judge said, “Let’s walk back to that

old fence. I think I know how the old

fellow pulled his trick.”

Back at the fence, the judge stood and

looked around for a few minutes. Smiling,

he said, “Yes, that’s how he did it.”

“How?” Grandpa asked.

Still smiling, the judge said, “That old

coon walked this rail fence. Coming even

with the hackberry tree, he leaped up on

its side, and climbed up. Notice how thick

the timber is around here. See that limb

way up there in the top, the one that runs

over and almost touches the sycamore?”

We saw what he meant.

“The coon walked out on that limb,” he

said, “leaped over, and caught the

sycamore limb. Repeating this over and

over, from tree to tree, he worked his way

far out into the river bottoms. What I can’t

figure out is how that hound found him.”

Gazing at Little Ann, he shook his head

and said, “I’ve been hunting coons and

judging coon hunts for forty years, but I’ve

never seen anything like that.”

He looked at me. “Well, son,” he said,

“you have tied the leading teams. There’s

only one more night of eliminations. Even

if some of them get more than three coons,

you will still be in the runoff, and from

what I’ve seen here tonight, you have a

good chance of winning the cup.”

I knew that Little Ann had scented the

coon in the air, the same as she had the

ghost coon. I walked over and knelt down

by her side. The things I wanted to say to

her I couldn’t, for the knot in my throat,

but I’m sure she understood.

As we came into the campground, the

hunters came out of their tents and

gathered around us. The judge held up the

three big coon hides. There was a roar

from the crowd.

One man said, “That was the most

beautiful sight I’ve ever seen.”

“What was a beautiful sight?” Grandpa

asked.

“Last night those little red hounds

brought that coon right through camp.”

The judge said, “We figured they did

when we heard the noise.”

Laughing, the man said, “We heard them

when they ran up the other side of the

river. Way up above here they crossed

over. We could tell they were coming

back so we doused all the fires and, sure

enough, they came right through camp.

Those two little hounds weren’t fifty yards

behind the coon, running side by side.

Boy, they were picking them up and laying

them down, and bawling every time their

feet touched the ground. I’ll tell you, it

was the prettiest sight I ever saw.”

When the judge started telling about the

last coon Little Ann had treed I took my

dogs over to our tent and fed and watered

them. After they had had their fill, I gave

them a good rubdown with a piece of

gunny sack. Taking them out to the buggy, I

tied them up. I stood and watched while

they twisted around in the hay making their

bed.

That day I tried to get some sleep in our

tent, but the soaking Grandpa had taken in

the river had given him a cold, causing

him to snore. I never heard such a racket

in all my life. I’d have sworn he rattled

the paper sacks in our grocery boxes.

Taking a blanket, I went out to my dogs.

Little Ann had wiggled up as close to Old

Dan as she could. Prying them apart, I lay

down between them and fell asleep.

The last night of the eliminations turned

out like the second night. None of the

judges turned in more than two hides.

That day, about noon, the owners of the

other winning teams and I were called for

a conference with the head judge. He said,

“Gentlemen, the eliminations are over.

Only three sets of hounds are left for the

runoff. The winner of tonight’s hunt will

receive the gold cup. If there is a tie for

the championship, naturally there will be

another runoff.”

He shook hands with each of us and

wished us good luck.

Tension began to build up in the camp.

Here and there hunters were standing in

small groups, talking. Others could be

seen going in and out of tents with rolls of

money in their hands. Grandpa was the

busiest one of all. His voice could be

heard all over the camp. Men were

looking at me, and talking in low tones. I

strutted like a turkey gobbler.

That evening, while we were having

supper, a hunter dropped by. He had a

small box in his hand. Smiling, he said,

“Everyone has agreed that we should have

a jackpot for the winner. I’ve been picked

to do the collecting.”

Grandpa said, “You may as well leave

it here now.”

Looking at me, the hunter said, “Son, I

think almost every man in this camp is

hoping you win it, but it’s not going to be

easy. You’re going up against four of the

finest hounds there are.” Turning to my

father, he said, “Did you know the two big

walker hounds have won four gold cups?”

Very seriously, Papa said, “You know I

have two mules down on my place. One is

almost as big as a barn. The other one

isn’t much bigger than a jack rabbit, but

that little mule can outpull the big one

every time.”

Smiling, the hunter turned to leave. He

said, “You could be right.”

Papa asked me again where I thought

we should start hunting.

I had been thinking about this all day. I

said, “You remember where we jumped

the last coon in the swamp?”

Papa said, “Yes.”

“Well, the way I figure, more than one

coon lives in that swamp,” I said. “It’s a

good place for them as there are lots of

crawfish and minnows in those potholes.

If a hound jumps one there, he has a good

chance to tree him.”

Papa asked, “Why?”

“It’s a long way back to the river, and

about the same distance to the mountains,”

I said. “Either way he runs, a dog can get

pretty close to him, and so he would have

to take to a tree.”

That

evening

we

climbed

into

Grandpa’s buggy and headed for the

swamp. It was dark by the time we

reached it.

Grandpa handed Papa his gun, saying.

“You’re getting to be a pretty good shot

with this thing.”

“I hope I get to shoot it a lot tonight,”

Papa said.

Under my breath, I said, “I do, too.”

After untying the ropes from my dogs, I

held onto their collars for a minute.

Pulling them up close, I knelt down and

whispered, “This is the last night. I know

you’ll do your best.”

They seemed to understand and tugged

at their collars. When I turned them loose,

they started for the timber. Just as they

reached the dark shadows, they stopped,

turned around, and stared straight at me

for an instant.

The judge saw their strange actions.

Laying a hand on my shoulder, he asked,

“What did they say, son?”

I said, “Nothing that anyone could

understand, but I can feel that they know

this hunt is important. They know it just as

well as you or I.”

It was Little Ann who found the trail.

Before the echo of her sharp cry had died

away, Old Dan’s deep voice floated out of

the swamp.

“Well, let’s go,” Papa said eagerly.

“No, let’s wait a minute,” I said.

“Wait? Why?” Grandpa asked.

“To see which way he’s going to run,” I

said.

The coon broke out of the swamp and

headed for the river. Listening to my dogs,

I could tell they were close to him. I said

to Papa, “I don’t think he’ll ever make it

to the river. They’re right on his heels

now.”

By the time we had circled the swamp,

they were bawling treed.

The judge said, “Boy, that was fast.”

I felt my father’s hand on my shoulder.

Looking at me, he smiled and nodded his

head. Papa and I knew I had judged the

coon perfectly. He didn’t have time to

reach the river or the mountains.

My dogs had treed the coon in a tall ash

which stood about fifty yards from the

river. I knew the fifty yards had saved us a

good hour, because he could have pulled

trick after trick if he had gotten in the

water.

We spied the coon in the topmost

branches. At the crack of the gun, he ran

far out on a limb and jumped. He landed

in an old fallen treetop. He scooted

through it. Coming out on the other side,

he ran for the river. The tangled mass of

limbs slowed my dogs and they all but

tore the treetop apart getting out of it. The

coon was just one step ahead of them as

they reached the river. We heard them hit

the water.

Running over, we stood and watched

the fight. The coon was at home in the

river. He crawled up on Old Dan’s head,

trying to force him under. Before he could

do it, Little Ann reached up and pulled

him off.

In a scared voice, Papa said, “That

water looks deep to me.”

“Maybe you had better call them off,”

said the judge. “That’s a big coon and he

could drown one of them easily in that

deep water.”

“Call them off?” I said. “Why, you

couldn’t whip them off with a stick.

There’s no use for anyone to get scared.

They know exactly what they’re doing.

I’ve seen this more times than one.”

Grandpa was scared and excited. He

was jumping up and down, whooping and

hollering.

Papa raised the gun to aim.

I jumped and grabbed his arm. “Don’t

do that,” I yelled. “You’re sure to hit one

of my dogs.”

Round and round in the deep water the

fight went on. The coon climbed on Old

Dan’s head and sank his teeth in one of his

long tender ears. Old Dan bawled with

pain. Little Ann swam in and caught one of

the coon’s hind legs in her mouth. She

tried hard to pull him off. All three

disappeared under the water.

I held my breath.

The water churned and boiled. All three

came to the top about the same time. The

coon was between the bank we were

standing on and my dogs. He swam

toward us. They caught him again just as

he reached shore. He fought his way free

and ran for a large sycamore. Old Dan

caught him just as he started up. I knew

that was the end of the fight.

After it was all over and the coon had

been skinned, Grandpa said, “I hope we

don’t have to go through that again tonight.

For a while I sure thought your dogs were

goners.”

The judge said, “Well, have you ever

seen that? Look over there!”

Old Dan was standing perfectly still,

with eyes closed and head hanging down.

Little Ann was licking at his cut and

bleeding ears.

“She always does that,” I said. “If

you’ll watch, when she gets done with

him, he’ll do the same for her.”

We stood and watched until they had

finished doctoring each other. Then,

trotting side by side, they disappeared in

the darkness.

We followed along, stopping now and

then to listen.

XVII

LOOKING UP THE SKY, PAPA SAID, “THAT DOESN’T

LOOK GOOD up there. I think we are in for a

storm.”

The sky had turned a dark gray. Fast-

moving clouds were rolling through the

heavens.

Grandpa said, “Looks like we’re going

to get some wind, too.”

Scared and thinking everyone might

want to stop hunting because of a few

clouds, I said, “If a storm is brewing, it’s

a good night to hunt. All game stirs just

before a storm.”

Thirty minutes later, Papa said,

“Listen.”

We stood still. A low moaning sound

could be heard in the tops of the tall

sycamores.

Grandpa said, “I was afraid of that.

We’re going to get some wind.”

We heard a rattling in the leaves and

underbrush. It was beginning to sleet. The

air turned cold and chilly.

From far downriver, we heard the deep

baying of a hound on a trail. It was Old

Dan. Seconds later, the rhythmic crying of

Little Ann could be heard. Swallowing the

lump that had jumped up in my throat, I

whooped as loud as I could.

The ground was turning white with

sleet. The storm had really set in. We

hurried along.

I said to Papa, “If this keeps up that old

coon won’t run long. He’ll head for his

den.”

“If it gets much worse,” Grandpa said,

“I know some coon hunters that won’t be

running very long. They’ll be frozen too

stiff to run.”

The judge asked if there was any danger

of getting lost.

“I don’t know,” Papa said. “It’s all

strange country to me.”

My dogs’ voices sounded far away. I

knew they were much closer than they

sounded as they were downwind from us.

Finding three large sycamores growing

close together, we stopped on the leeward

side.

Papa shouted above the wind, “I don’t

know if we can take much more of this.”

“It is bad,” Grandpa replied, “and it

looks like it’s going to get worse.”

“You can’t see over fifteen feet now,”

the judge said. “Do you think we can find

the buggy?”

“I think we can find the buggy all right,”

Papa said.

I could no longer hear the voices of my

dogs. This had me worried. I didn’t want

to leave them out in the storm.

“Can anyone hear the hounds?”

Grandpa asked.

“I can’t,” Papa said.

The judge spoke up. “Fellows, I think

we’d better go in,” he said. “There’s no

telling where they are. They may have

crossed the river.”

Scared and knowing I had to do

something, I said, “They’re closer than

you think, probably treed by now. You

can’t hear them for this wind.” I begged,

“Let’s go a little further.”

There was no reply and no one made a

move to leave the shelter of the trees.

Taking a few steps, I said, “I’ll take the

lead. Just follow me.”

“Billy, we couldn’t find them,” Papa

said. “You can’t see or hear a thing. We

had better start back for camp.”

“I think so, too,” the judge said.

At this remark, I cried, “I’ve been out in

storms like this before, all by myself. I’ve

never left my dogs in the woods, and I’m

not going to now, even if I have to look for

them by myself.”

No one answered.

“Please go just a little further,” I

begged. “I just know we’ll hear them.”

Still no one spoke or made a move to

go on.

Stepping over to my father, I buried my

face in his old mackinaw coat. Sobbing, I

pleaded with him not to turn back.

He patted my head. “Billy,” he said, “a

man could freeze to death in this storm,

and besides, your dogs will give up and

come in.”

“That’s what has me worried,” I cried.

“They won’t come in. They won’t, Papa.

Little Ann might, but not Old Dan. He’d

die before he’d leave a coon in a tree.”

Papa was undecided. Making up his

mind, he stepped away from the tree and

said to the others, “I’m going on with him.

You fellows coming, or going back?”

He turned and followed me. Grandpa

and the judge fell in behind him.

By this time the ground was covered

with a thin white layer of sleet. We kept

slipping and falling. I could hear Grandpa

mumbling and grumbling. The wind-

driven sleet stung our skin like thousands

of pricking needles. Strong gusts of wind

growled and moaned through the tops of

the tall timber.

Once during a momentary lull of the

storm, I thought I heard the baying of a

hound. I told my father I thought I had

heard Old Dan.

“From which direction?” he asked.

“From that way,” I said, pointing to our

left.

We started on. A few minutes later

Papa stopped. He shouted to my

grandfather, “Did you hear anything?”

“No,” Grandpa shouted back. “I can’t

hear anything in this storm.”

“I thought I did, but I’m not sure,” the

judge said.

“Where was it coming from?” Papa

asked.

“Over that way,” the judge said,

pointing to our right.

“That’s the way it sounded to me,”

Papa said.

At that moment, all of us heard the deep

voice of Old Dan.

“It sounds as if they’re close,” Grandpa

said.

“Let’s split up,” said the judge. “Maybe

one of us can find them.”

“No,” Papa said, “it’d be easy to get

lost in this storm.”

“I think they’re more to the right of us,”

I said.

“I do, too,” Papa said.

We trudged on. Old Dan bawled again.

The sound of his voice seemed to be all

around us.

“The way that wind is whipping the

sound through this timber,” the judge said,

“we’d be lucky if we ever found them.”

Papa shouted over the roar of the wind,

“We can’t take much more of this. We’ll

freeze to death.”

The men were giving up. I felt the knot

again as it crawled up in my throat. Salt

water froze on my eyelashes. Kneeling

down, I put my ear close to the icy ground

in hopes I could hear my dogs, but I

couldn’t hear anything above the roar of

the blizzard.

Standing up, I peered this way and that.

All I could see was a white wall of

whirling sleet. I closed my eyes and said a

silent prayer and hoped for a miracle.

We heard a sharp crack and a loud

crashing noise. A large limb, torn from a

tree by the strong wind, fell to the ground.

The sharp crack of the limb gave me the

idea. Shouting to my father, I said, “Shoot

the gun. If my dogs are close enough to

hear it, maybe Little Ann will come to us.”

Papa didn’t hesitate. Pointing the gun

high over his head, he pulled the trigger.

The sharp crack rang out into the teeth of

the storm.

We waited.

Just when I had given up all hope and

had sunk to the lowest depth of despair,

out of the white wall of driving sleet, my

little dog came to me. I knelt down and

gathered her in my arms.

Taking one of the lead ropes from my

pocket, I tied it to her collar. I said, “Find

him, little girl. Please find Old Dan.”

Right then I didn’t care about coons,

gold cups, or anything. All I wanted was

my dogs.

I don’t know how she did it. Straight

into the face of the storm she led us. Time

after time she would stop and turn her

head this way and that. I knew she

couldn’t scent or see anything. Instinct

alone was guiding her. Over a winding

and twisting trail, we followed.

Coming out of the bottoms, she led us

into a thick canebrake. The tall stalks

sheltered us from the storm. The roaring of

the wind didn’t seem as loud. Like ghostly

figures, large trees loomed out of the

almost solid mass. Falling and stumbling,

we kept pushing on.

Grandpa shouted, “Hold up a minute.

I’m just about all in.”

We stopped.

“Do you think that hound knows what

she’s doing?” the judge asked. “Maybe

we’re just running around in circles.”

Looking at me, Papa said, “I hope she

does. Some of these canebrakes cover

miles. If we get lost in here, we’ll be in

bad shape.”

Grandpa said, “I think we’ve gone too

far. The last time I heard Old Dan, he

sounded quite close.”

“That was because the wind carried the

sound,” I said.

The judge spoke up, “Fellows, no dog

is worth the lives of three men. Now let’s

do the smart thing and get out of here

while we can. Our clothes are wet. If we

keep on wandering around in this jungle,

we’ll freeze to death. It doesn’t look like

this blizzard is ever going to let up.”

I could hear the roar of the blizzard

back in the thick timber of the bottoms.

Two large limbs being rubbed together by

the strong wind made a grinding creaking

sound. The tall slender cane around us

rattled and swayed.

I could feel the silence closing in. I

knew the judge’s cold logic had had its

effect on my father and grandfather. The

men had given up. There was no hope left

for me.

Kneeling down, I put my arms around

Little Ann. I felt the warm heat from her

moist tongue caressing my ear. Closing my

eyes, I said, “Please, Dan, bawl one more

time, just one more time.”

I waited for my plea to be answered.

With its loud roaring, the north wind

seemed to be laughing at us. All around,

tall stalks of cane were weaving and

dancing to the rattling rhythm of their

knife-edged blades.

My father tried to talk above the wind,

but his words were lost in the storm. Just

before another blast, clear as a foghorn on

a stormy sea, Old Dan’s voice rang loud

and clear. It seemed louder than the roar

of the wind or the skeleton-like rustling of

the tall swaying cane.

I jumped to my feet. My heart did a

complete flip-flop. The knot in my throat

felt as big as an apple. I tried to whoop,

but it was no use. Little Ann bawled and

tugged on the rope.

There was no mistaking the direction.

We knew that Little Ann had been right all

along. Straight as an arrow, she had led us

to him.

Old Dan was treed down in a deep

gully. I slid off the bank and ran to him.

His back was covered with a layer of

frozen sleet. His frost-covered whiskers

stood out straight as porcupine quills.

I worked the wedges of ice from

between his toes, and scraped the sleet

from his body with my hands. Little Ann

came over and tried to wash his face. He

didn’t like it. Jerking loose from me, he

ran over to the tree, reared up on it, and

started bawling.

Hearing shouting from the bank above

me, I looked up. I could dimly see Papa

and the judge through the driving sleet. At

first I thought they were shouting to me,

but on peering closer I could see that they

had their backs to me. Catching hold of

some long stalks of cane that were hanging

down from the steep bank, I pulled myself

up.

Papa shouted in my ear, “Something has

happened to your grandfather.”

Turning to the judge, he said, “He was

behind you. When was the last time you

saw him?”

“I don’t know for sure,” the judge said.

“I guess it was back there when we heard

the hound bawl.”

“Didn’t you hear anything?” Papa

asked.

“Hear anything?” the judge exclaimed.

“How could I hear anything in all that

noise? I thought he was behind me all the

time, and didn’t miss him until we got

here.”

I couldn’t hold back the tears. My

grandfather was lost and wandering in that

white jungle of cane. Screaming for him, I

started back.

Papa caught me. He shouted, “Don’t do

that.”

I tried to tear away from him but his

grip on my arm was firm.

“Shoot the gun,” the judge said.

Papa shot time after time. It was

useless. We got no answer.

Little Ann came up out of the washout.

She stood and stared at me. Turning, she

disappeared quickly in the thick cane.

Minutes later we heard her. It was a long,

mournful cry.

The only times I had ever heard my

little dog bawl like that were when she

was baying at a bright Ozark moon, or

when someone played a French harp or a

fiddle close to her ear. She didn’t stop

until we reached her.

Grandpa lay as he had fallen, face

down in the icy sleet. His right foot was

wedged in the fork of a broken box elder

limb. When the ankle had twisted, the

searing pain must have made him

unconscious.

Papa worked Grandpa’s foot free and

turned him over. I sat down and placed his

head in my lap. While Papa and the judge

massaged his arms and legs, I wiped the

frozen sleet from his eyes and face.

Burying my face in the iron-gray hair, I

cried and begged God not to let my

grandfather die.

“I think he’s gone,” the judge said.

“I don’t think so,” Papa said. “He took

a bad fall when that limb tripped him, but

he hasn’t been lying here long enough to

be frozen. I think he’s just unconscious.”

Papa lifted him to a sitting position and

told the judge to start slapping his face.

Grandpa moaned and moved his head.

“He’s coming around,” Papa said.

I asked Papa if we could get him back

to the gully where Old Dan was. I had

noticed there was very little wind there

and we could build a fire.

“That’s the very place,” he said. “We’ll

build a good fire and one of us can go for

help.”

Papa and the judge made a seat by

catching each other’s wrists. They eased

Grandpa between them.

By the time we reached the washout,

Grandpa was fully conscious again, and

was mumbling and grumbling. He couldn’t

see why they had to carry him like a baby.

After easing him over the bank and

down into the gully, we built a large fire.

Papa took his knife and cut the boot from

Grandpa’s swollen foot. Grandpa grunted

and groaned from the pain. I felt sorry for

him but there was nothing I could do but

look on.

Papa examined the foot. Shaking his

head, he said, “Boy, that’s a bad one. It’s

either broken or badly sprained. I’ll go for

some help.”

Grandpa said, “Now wait just a minute.

I’m not going to let you go out in that

blizzard by yourself. What if something

happens to you? No one would know.”

“What time is it?” he asked.

The judge looked at his watch. “It’s

almost five o’clock,” he said.

“It’s not long till daylight,” Grandpa

said. “Then if you want to go, you can see

where you’re going. Now help me get

propped up against this bank. I’ll be all

right. It doesn’t hurt any more. It’s numb

now.”

“He’s right,” the judge said.

“Think you can stand it?” Papa asked.

Grandpa roared like a bear. “Sure I can

stand it. It’s nothing but a sprained ankle.

I’m not going to die. Build that fire up a

little more.”

While Papa and the judge made

Grandpa comfortable, I carried wood for

the fire.

“There’s no use standing around

gawking at me,” Grandpa said. “I’m all

right. Get the coon out of that tree. That’s

what we came for, isn’t it?”

Up until then, the coon-hunting had

practically been forgotten.

The tree was about thirty feet from our

fire. We walked over and took a good

look at it for the first time. My dogs,

seeing we were finally going to pay some

attention to them, started bawling and

running around the tree.

Papa said, “It’s not much of a tree, just

an old box elder snag. There’s not a limb

on it.”

“I can’t see any coon,” said the judge.

“It must be hollow.”

Papa beat on its side with the ax. It

gave forth a loud booming sound. He said,

“It’s hollow all right.”

He stepped back a few steps, scraped

his feet on the slick ground for a good

footing, and said, “Stand back, and hold

those hounds. I’m going to cut it down. We

need some wood for our fire anyway.”

Squatting down between my dogs, I

held onto their collars.

Papa notched the old snag so it would

fall away from our fire. As the heavy ax

chewed its way into the tree, it began to

lean and crack. Papa stopped chopping.

He said to the judge, “Come on and help

me. I think we can push it over now.”

After much grunting and pushing,

snapping and popping, it fell.

I turned my dogs loose.

On hitting the ground, the snag split and

broke up. Goggle-eyed, I stood rooted in

my tracks and watched three big coons

roll out of the busted old trunk.

One started up the washout, running

between us and the fire. Old Dan caught

him and the fight was on. The second coon

headed down the washout. Little Ann

caught him.

Hearing a loud yell from Grandpa, I

looked that way. Old Dan and the coon

were fighting close to his feet. He was

yelling and beating at them with his hat.

The judge and Papa ran to help.

The third coon started climbing up the

steep bank close to me. Just before

reaching the top, his claws slipped in the

icy mud. Tumbling end over end, down he

came. I grabbed up a stick and threw it at

him. Growling and showing his teeth, he

started for me. I threw the fight to him then

and there. Some ten yards away I looked

back. He was climbing the bank. That time

he made it and disappeared in the thick

cane.

Hearing a squall of pain from Little

Ann, I turned. The coon was really

working her over. He had climbed up on

her back and was tearing and slashing.

She couldn’t shake him off. Grabbing a

club from the ground, I ran to help her.

Before we had killed our coon, Old

Dan came tearing in. We stood and

watched the fight. When the coon was

dead, Papa picked it up and we walked

back to the fire.

“How many coons were in that old

snag?” Papa asked.

“I saw three,” I said. “The one that got

away climbed out over there.” I pointed in

the direction the coon had taken.

I never should have pointed. My dogs

turned as one, and started bawling and

clawing their way up the steep bank. I

shouted and scolded, but to no avail. They

disappeared in the rattling cane.

We stood still, listening to their voices.

The sound died away in the roaring storm.

Sitting down close to the fire, I buried my

face in my arms and cried.

I heard the judge say to my father, “This

beats anything I have ever seen. Why,

those dogs can read that boy’s mind. He

just pointed at that bank and away they

went. I never saw anything like it. I can’t

understand some of the things they have

done tonight. Hounds usually aren’t that

smart. If they were collies, or some other

breed of dog, it would be different, but

they’re just redbone hounds, hunting

dogs.”

Papa said, “Yes, I know what you

mean. I’ve seen them do things that I

couldn’t understand. I’d never heard of

hounds that ever had any affection for

anyone, but these dogs are different. Did

you know they won’t hunt with anyone but

him, not even me?”

Hearing my grandfather call my name, I

went over and sat down by his side.

Putting his arm around me, he said, “Now,

I wouldn’t worry about those dogs.

They’ll be all right. It’s not long till

daylight. Then you can go to them.”

I said, “Yes, but what if the coon

crosses the river? My dogs will follow

him. If they get wet they could freeze to

death.”

“We’ll just have to wait and hope for

the best,” he said. “Now straighten up and

quit that sniffling. Act like a coon hunter.

You don’t see me bawling, and this old

foot is paining me something awful.”

I felt better after my talk with Grandpa.

“Come on, let’s skin these coons,” Papa

said.

I got up to help him.

After the skins were peeled from the

carcasses, I had an idea. Holding one up

close to the fire until it was warm, I took

it over and wrapped it around Grandpa’s

foot. Chuckling, he said, “Boy, that feels

good. Heat another skin the same way.”

I kept it up for the rest of the night.

XVIII

JUST BEFORE DAWN, THE STORM BLEW ITSELF OUT

WITH ONE last angry roar. It started snowing.

A frozen silence settled over the

canebrake.

Back in the thick timber of the river

bottoms, the sharp snapping of frozen

limbs could be heard. The tall stalks of

wild cane looked exhausted from the

hellish night. They were drooping and

bending from the weight of the frozen

sleet.

I climbed out of the deep gully and

listened for my dogs. I couldn’t hear them.

Just as I started back down the bank, I

heard something. I listened. Again I heard

the sound.

Papa was watching me. “Can you hear

the dogs?” he asked.

“No, not the dogs,” I said, “but I can

hear something else.”

“What does it sound like?” he asked.

“Like someone whooping,” I said.

Papa and the judge hurried up the bank.

We heard the sound again. It was coming

from a different direction.

“The first time I heard it,” I said, “it

was over that way.”

“It’s the men from camp,” the judge

said. “They’re searching for us.”

We started whooping. The searchers

answered. Their voices came from all

directions. The first one to reach us was

Mr. Kyle. He looked haggard and tired.

He asked if everything was all right.

“Yes, we’re all right,” Papa said, “but

the old man has a bad ankle. It looks like

we’ll have to carry him out.”

“Your team broke loose and came back

to camp about midnight,” Mr. Kyle said.

“This really spooked us. We were sure

something bad had happened. Twenty-five

of us have been searching since then.”

Several men climbed down the bank

and went over to Grandpa. They looked at

his ankle. One said, “I don’t think it’s

broken, but it sure is a bad sprain.”

“You’re in luck,” another one said.

“We have one of the best doctors in the

state of Texas in our camp, Dr. Charley

Lathman. He’ll have you fixed up in no

time.”

“Yes,” another said, “and if I know

Charley, he’s probably got a small

hospital with him.”

Back in the crowd, I heard another man

say, “You mean that Lathman fellow, who

owns those black and tan hounds, is a

doctor?”

“Sure is,” another said. “One of the

best.”

Mr. Kyle asked where my dogs were. I

told him that they were treed somewhere.

“What

do

you

mean,

treed

somewhere?” he asked.

Papa explained what had happened.

With a wide-eyed look on his face, he

said, “Do you mean to tell me those

hounds stayed with the tree in that

blizzard?”

I nodded.

Looking at me, he said, “Son, I hope

they have that coon treed, because you

need that one to win the cup. Those two

walker hounds caught three before the

storm came up. When it got bad, all the

hunters came in.”

The judge spoke up. “I’ll always

believe that those hounds knew that boy

needed another coon to win,” he said. “If

you fellows had seen some of the things

those dogs have done, you’d believe it,

too.”

One hunter walked over to the broken

snag. “Three out of one tree,” he said. “No

wonder, look here! That old snag was

half-full of leaves and grass. Why, it was

a regular old den tree.”

Several of the men walked over. I heard

one say, “I’ve seen this happen before.

Remember that big hunt in the Red River

bottoms, when the two little beagle hounds

treed four coons in an old hollow snag?

They won the championship, too.”

“I wasn’t there but I remember reading

about it,” one said.

“Say, I don’t see Benson,” Mr. Kyle

said.

The men started looking at each other.

“He was searching farther downriver

than the rest of us,” one fellow said.

“Maybe he didn’t hear us shouting.”

Some of the men climbed out of the

gully. They started whooping. From a

distance we heard an answering shout.

“He hears us,” someone said. “He’s

coming.”

Everyone looked relieved.

Mr. Benson struck the washout a little

way above us. He was breathing hard, as

if he’d been running. He started talking as

soon as he was within hearing distance.

“It scared me when I first saw them,” he

said. “I didn’t know what they were. They

looked like white ghosts. I’d never seen

anything like it.”

A hunter grabbed Mr. Benson by the

shoulder, shaking him. “Get ahold of

yourself, man,” he said. “What are you

talking about?”

Mr. Benson took a deep breath to

control himself, and started again in a

much calmer voice. “Those two hounds,”

he said. “I found them. They’re frozen

solid. They’re nothing but white ice from

the tips of their noses to the ends of their

tails.”

Hearing Mr. Benson’s words, I

screamed and ran to my father. Everything

started whirling around and around. I felt

light as a feather. My knees buckled. I

knew no more.

Regaining consciousness, I opened my

eyes and could dimly see the blurry

images of the men around me. A hand was

shaking me. I could hear my father’s voice

but I couldn’t understand his words. Little

by little the blackness faded away. My

throat was dry and I was terribly thirsty. I

asked for some water.

Mr. Benson came over. He said, “Son,

I’m sorry, truly sorry. I didn’t mean it that

way. Your dogs are alive. I guess I was

excited. I’m very sorry.”

I heard a deep voice say, “That’s a hell

of a thing to do. Come running in here

saying the dogs are frozen solid.”

Mr. Benson said, “I didn’t mean it to

sound that way. I said I’m sorry. What

more do you want me to do?”

The deep voice growled again. “I still

think it was a hell of a thing for a man to

do.”

Mr. Kyle took over. “Now let’s not

have any more of this,” he said. “We have

work to do. We’ve been standing here

acting like a bunch of schoolkids. All this

time that old man has been lying there

suffering. A couple of you men cut two

poles and make a stretcher to carry him.”

While the men were getting the poles,

Papa heated the coonskins again and

rewrapped Grandpa’s foot.

With belts and long leather laces from

their boots, the hunters made a stretcher.

Very gently they put Grandpa on it.

Again Mr. Kyle took command. “Part of

us will start for camp with him,” he said.

“The others will go after the dogs.”

“Here, take this gun,” Papa said. “I’ll

go with him.”

Looking at me, Mr. Kyle said, “Come

on, son. I want to see your hounds.”

Mr. Benson led the way. “As soon as

we get out of this cane,” he said, “we may

be able to hear them. They have the coon

treed in a big black gum tree. You’re

going to see a sight. Now I mean a sight.

They’ve walked a ring around that tree

clear down through the ice and snow. You

can see the bare ground.”

“Wonder why they did that?” someone

asked.

“I don’t know,” Mr. Benson replied,

“unless they ran in that circle to keep from

freezing to death, or to keep the coon in

the tree.”

I figured I knew why my dogs were

covered with ice. The coon had probably

crossed the river, maybe several times.

Old Dan and Little Ann would have

followed him. They had come out of the

river with their coats dripping wet, and

the freezing blast of the blizzard had done

the rest.

Nearing the tree, we stopped and

stared.

“Did you ever see anything like that?”

Mr. Benson asked. “When I first saw

them, I thought they were white wolves.”

My dogs hadn’t seen us when we came

up. They were trotting round and round.

Just as Mr. Benson had said, we could see

the path they had worn down through the

ice and snow till the bare black earth was

visible. Like ghostly white shadows,

around and around they trotted.

In a low voice, someone said, “They

know that if they stop they’ll freeze to

death.”

“It’s unbelievable,” said Mr. Kyle.

“Come on. We must do something quick.”

With a choking sob, I ran for my dogs.

On hearing our approach, they sat down

and started bawling treed. I noticed their

voices didn’t have that solid ring. Their

ice-covered tails made a rattling sound as

they switched this way and that on the icy

ground.

A large fire was built. Standing my

dogs close to the warm heat, the gentle

hands of the hunters went to work. With

handkerchiefs

and

scarves

heated

steaming hot, little by little the ice was

thawed from their bodies.

“If they had ever lain down,” someone

said, “they would’ve frozen to death.”

“They knew it,” another said. “That’s

why they kept running in that circle.”

“What I can’t understand is why they

stayed with the tree,” Mr. Benson said.

“I’ve seen hounds stay with a tree for a

while, but not in a northern blizzard.”

“Men,” said Mr. Kyle, “people have

been trying to understand dogs ever since

the beginning of time. One never knows

what they’ll do. You can read every day

where a dog saved the life of a drowning

child, or lay down his life for his master.

Some people call this loyalty. I don’t. I

may be wrong, but I call it love—the

deepest kind of love.”

After these words were spoken, a

thoughtful silence settled over the men.

The mood was broken by the deep

growling voice I had heard back in the

washout.

“It’s a shame that people all over the

world can’t have that kind of love in their

hearts,” he said. “There would be no

wars, slaughter, or murder; no greed or

selfishness. It would be the kind of world

that God wants us to have—a wonderful

world.”

After all the ice was thawed from my

dogs and their coats were dried out, I

could see they were all right. I was happy

again and felt good all over.

One of the hunters said, “Do you think

those hounds are thawed out enough to

fight a coon?”

“Sure, just run him out of that tree,” I

said.

At the crack of the gun, the coon ran far

out on a big limb and stopped. Again the

hunter sprinkled him with bird shot. This

time he jumped. Hitting the ground, he

crouched down.

Old Dan made a lunge. Just as he

reached him, the coon sprang straight up

and came down on his head. Holding on

with his claws, the coon sank his teeth in a

long tender ear. Old Dan was furious. He

started turning in a circle, bawling with

pain.

Little Ann was trying hard to get ahold

of the coon but she couldn’t. Because of

his fast circling, Old Dan’s feet flew out

from under him and he fell. This gave

Little Ann a chance. Darting in, her jaws

closed on the back of the coon’s neck. I

knew the fight was over.

Arriving back at camp, I saw that all the

tents had been taken down but ours. A

hunter said, “Everyone was in a hurry to

get out before another blizzard sets in.”

Papa told me to take my dogs into the

tent as Grandpa wanted to see them.

I saw tears in my grandfather’s eyes as

he talked to them. His ankle was wrapped

in bandages. His foot and toes were

swollen to twice their normal size. They

had turned a greenish-yellow color.

Placing my hand on his foot, I could feel

the feverish heat.

Dr. Lathman came over. “Are you ready

to go now?” he asked.

Snorting and growling, Grandpa said, “I

told you I wasn’t going anywhere till I see

the gold cup handed to this boy.”

Turning to face the crowd, Dr. Lathman

said, “Men, let’s get this over. I want to

get this man to town. That’s one of the

meanest sprains I’ve ever seen and it

should be in a cast, but I don’t have any

plaster of Paris with me.”

The hunter who had come by our tent

collecting the jackpot money came up to

me. Handing me the box, he said, “Here

you are, son. There’s over three hundred

dollars in this box. It’s all yours.”

Turning to the crowd, he said,

“Fellows, I can always say this. On this

hunt I’ve seen two of the finest little coon

hounds I ever hope to see.”

There was a roar of approval from the

crowd.

Looking down, I saw the box was

almost full of money. I was shaking all

over. I tried to say “Thanks,” but it was

only a whisper. Turning, I handed the box

to my father. As his rough old hands

closed around it, I saw a strange look

come over his face. He turned and looked

at my dogs.

Some of the men started shouting, “Here

it is!”

The crowd parted and the judge walked

through. I saw the gleaming metal of the

gold cup in his hand. After a short speech,

he handed it to me, saying, “Son, this

makes me very proud. It’s a great honor to

present you with this championship cup.”

The crowd exploded. The hunters’

shouts were deafening.

I don’t know from where the two silly

old tears came. They just squeezed their

way out. I felt them as they rolled down

my cheeks. One dropped on the smooth

surface of the cup and splattered. I wiped

it away with my sleeve.

Turning to my dogs, I knelt down and

showed the cup to them. Little Ann licked

it. Old Dan sniffed one time, and then

turned his head away.

The judge said, “Son, there’s a place on

the cup to engrave the names of your dogs.

I can take it into Oklahoma City and have

it done, or you can have it done yourself.

The engraving charge has already been

paid by the association.”

Looking at the cup, it seemed that far

down in the gleaming shadows I could see

two wide blue eyes glued to a

windowpane. I knew that my little sister

was watching the road and waiting for our

return. Looking back at the judge, I said,

“If you don’t mind, I’ll take it with me. My

grandfather can send it in for me.”

Laughing, he said, “That’s all right.”

Handing me a slip of paper, he said, “This

is the address where you should send it.”

Grandpa said, “Now that that’s settled,

I’m ready to go to town.” Turning to Papa,

he said, “You’ll have to bring the buggy,

and I wish you’d look after my stock. I

know Grandma will want to go in with us

and there’ll be no one there to feed them.

Tell Bill Lowery to come up and take care

of the store. You’ll find the keys in the

usual place.”

“Well take care of everything,” Papa

said. “Don’t worry about a thing. I don’t

intend to stop until we get back, because it

looks like we’re in for some more bad

weather.”

I went over and kissed Grandpa good-

bye.

He

pinched

my

cheek,

and

whispered, “We’ll teach these city

slickers that they can’t come up here and

beat our dogs.”

I smiled.

Grandpa was carried out and made

comfortable in the back seat of Dr.

Lathman’s car. I stood and watched as it

wheezed and bounced its way out of sight.

“While I’m harnessing the team,” Papa

said, “you take the tent down and pack our

gear.”

On the back seat of the buggy, I made a

bed out of our bed-clothes. Down on the

floor boards, I fixed a nice place for my

dogs.

All through the night, the creaking

wheels of our buggy moved on. Several

times I woke up. My father had wrapped a

tarp around himself. Reaching down, I

could feel my dogs. They were warm and

comfortable.

Early the next morning, we stopped for

breakfast. While Papa tended to the team,

I turned my dogs loose and let them

stretch.

“We made good time last night,” Papa

said. “If everything goes right, we’ll be

home long before dark.”

Reaching Grandpa’s store in the middle

of the afternoon, Papa said, “I’ll put the

team in the barn and feed the stock while

you unload the buggy.”

Coming back from the barn, he said, “In

the morning, I’ll go over and tell Bill

Lowery to come up and open the store.”

Looking around, he said, “It snowed

more here than it did where we were

hunting.”

Feeling big and important, I said, “I

don’t like the looks of this weather. We’d

better be scooting for home.”

Papa laughed. “Sure you’re not in a

hurry to get home to show off the gold

cup?” he asked.

A smile was my only answer.

Two hundred yards this side of our

home, the road made a turn around a low

foothill shutting our house off from view.

Papa said, “You’re going to see a

scramble as soon as we round that bend.”

It was more of a stampede than a

scramble. The little one came out first,

and all but tore the screen door from its

hinges. The older girls passed her just

beyond the gate. In her hurry, she slipped

and fell face down in the snow. She

started crying.

The older girls ran up asking for the

cup.

Holding it high over my head, I said,

“Now wait a minute. I’ve got another one

for you two.” I held the small silver cup

out to them.

While they were fighting over it, I ran

to the little one. Picking her up, I brushed

the snow from her long, braided hair and

her tear-stained face. I told her there was

no use to cry. I had brought the gold cup to

her, and no one else was going to get it.

Reaching for the cup, she wrapped her

small arms around it. Squeezing it up tight,

she ran for the house to show it to Mama.

Mama came out on the porch. She was

just as excited as the girls were. She held

out her arms. I ran to her. She hugged me

and kissed me.

“It’s good to have you home again,” she

said.

“Look what I have, Mama,” the little

one cried, “and it’s all mine.”

She held the golden cup out in her two

small hands.

As Mama took the beautiful cup, she

looked at me. She started to say something

but was interrupted by the cries from the

other girls.

“We have one, too, Mama,” they cried,

“and it’s just as pretty as that one.”

“It’s not either,” the little one piped in a

defiant voice. “It’s not even as big as

mine.”

“Two cups!” Mama exclaimed. “Did

you win two?”

“Yes, Mama,” I said. “Little Ann won

that one all by herself.”

The awed expression on my mother’s

face was wonderful to see. Holding a cup

in each hand, she held them out in front of

her.

“Two,” she said. “A gold one and a

silver one. Who would have thought

anything so wonderful could have

happened to us. I’m so proud; so very

proud.”

Handing the cups back to the girls, she

walked over to Papa. After kissing him,

she said, “I just can’t believe everything

that has happened. I’m so glad you went

along. Did you enjoy yourself?”

With a smile on his face, Papa almost

shouted, “Enjoy myself? Why, I never had

such a time in my life.”

His voice trailed off to a low calm,

“That is, except for one thing. Grandpa

had a bad accident.”

“Yes, I know,” Mama said. “One of

Tom Logan’s boys was at the store when

they arrived. He came by and told us all

about it. The doctor said it wasn’t as bad

as it looked, and he was pretty sure

Grandpa would be home in a few days.”

I was happy to hear this news, and

could tell by the pleased look on my

father’s face, he was glad to hear it, too.

On entering the house, Papa said, “Oh, I

almost forgot.” He handed the box of

money to Mama.

“What’s this?” she asked.

“Oh, it’s just a little gift from Old Dan

and Little Ann,” Papa said.

Mama opened the box. I saw the color

drain from her face. Her hands started

trembling. Turning her back to us, she

walked over and set it on the mantel. A

peaceful silence settled over the room. I

could hear the clock ticking away. The

fire in the fireplace crackled and popped.

Turning from the mantel, Mama looked

straight at us. Her lips were tightly

pressed together to keep them from

quivering. Walking slowly to Papa, she

buried her face in his chest. I heard her

say, “Thank God, my prayers have been

answered.”

There was a celebration in our home

that night. To me it was like a second

Christmas.

Mama opened a jar of huckleberries

and made a large cobbler. Papa went to

the smokehouse and came back with a

hickory-cured ham. We sat down to a feast

of the ham, huge plates of fried potatoes,

ham gravy, hot corn bread, fresh butter,

and wild bee honey.

During the course of the meal, the entire

story of the championship hunt was told,

some by Papa but mostly by me.

Just when everything was so perfect

and peaceful, an argument sprang up

between the two oldest girls. It seemed

that each wanted to claim the silver cup.

Just when they were on the verge of

sawing it in two, so each would have her

allotted share, Papa settled the squabble

by giving the oldest one a silver dollar.

Once again peace and harmony was

restored.

That night as I was preparing for bed, a

light flashed by my window. Puzzled, I

tiptoed over and peeked through the pane.

It was Mama. Carrying my lantern and two

large plates heaped high with food, she

was heading for the doghouse. Setting the

light down on the ground in front of it, she

called to my dogs. While they were eating,

Mama

did

something

I

couldn’t

understand. She knelt down on her knees

in prayer.

After they had eaten their food, Mama

started petting them. I could hear her voice

but couldn’t make out her words.

Whatever she was saying must have

pleased them. Little Ann wiggled and

twisted. Even Old Dan wagged his long

red tail, which was very unusual.

Papa came out. I saw him put his arm

around Mama. Side by side they stood for

several minutes looking at my dogs. When

they turned to enter the house, I saw Mama

dab at her eyes with her apron.

Lying in bed, staring into the darkness, I

tried hard to figure out the strange actions

of my parents. Why had Mama knelt in

prayer in front of my dogs? Why had she

wept?

I was running all the why’s around in

my mind when I heard them talking.

“I know,” Papa said, “but I think there’s

a way. I’m going to have a talk with

Grandpa. I don’t think that old foot of his

is ever going to be the same again. He’s

going to need some help around the store.”

I knew they were talking about me, but I

couldn’t understand what they meant. Then

I thought, “Why, that’s it. They want me to

help Grandpa.” That would be all right

with me. I could still hunt every night.

Feeling smart for figuring out their

conversation, I turned over and fell

asleep.

XIX

ALTHOUGH THE WINNING OF THE CUPS AND THE

MONEY WAS a big event in my life, it didn’t

change my hunting any. I was out after the

ringtails every night.

I had been hunting the river bottoms

hard for about three weeks. On that night, I

decided to go back to the Cyclone Timber

country. I had barely reached the hunting

ground when my dogs struck a trail. Old

Dan opened up first.

They struck the trail on a ridge and then

dropped down into a deep canyon, up the

other side, and broke out into some flats. I

could tell that the scent was hot from their

steady bawling. Three times they treed the

animal.

Every time I came close to the tree, the

animal would jump, and the race would be

on. After a while, I knew it wasn’t a coon.

I decided it was a bobcat.

I didn’t like to have my dogs tree the

big cats, for their fur wasn’t any good, and

all I could expect was two cut-up hounds.

They could kill the largest bobcat in the

hills, and had on several occasions, but to

me it was useless. The only good I could

see in killing one was getting rid of a

vicious predatory animal.

The fourth time they treed, they were on

top of a mountain. After the long chase, I

figured the animal was winded and would

stay in the tree. In a trot I started to them.

As I neared the tree, Little Ann came to

me, reared up, and whined. By her

actions, I knew something was wrong. I

stopped. In the moonlight, I could see Old

Dan sitting on his haunches, staring up at

the tree and bawling.

The tree had lots of dead leaves on it. I

knew it was a large white oak because it

is one of the last trees in the mountains to

lose its leaves.

Old Dan kept bawling. Then he did

something he had never done before. For

seconds his deep voice was still, and

silence settled over the mountains. My

eyes wandered from the tree to him. His

lips were curled back and he snarled as he

stared into the dark foliage of the tree. His

teeth gleamed white in the moonlight. The

hair on his neck and along his back stood

on end. A low, deep, rumbling growl

rolled from his throat.

I was scared and I called to him. I

wanted to get away from there. Again I

called, but it was no use. He wouldn’t

leave the tree, for in his veins flowed the

breeded blood of a hunting hound. In his

fighting heart, there was no fear.

I set the lantern down and tightened my

grip on the handle of the ax. Slowly I

started walking toward him. I thought, “If I

can get close enough to him, I can grab his

collar.” I kept my eyes on the tree as I

edged forward. Little Ann stayed by my

side. She, too, was watching the tree.

Then I saw them—two burning, yellow

eyes—staring at me from the shadowy

foliage of the tree. I stopped, petrified

with fear.

The deep baying of Old Dan stopped

and again the silence closed in.

I stared back at the unblinking eyes.

I could make out the bulk of a large

animal, crouched on a huge branch, close

to the trunk of the big tree. Then it moved.

I heard the scratch of razor-sharp claws

on the bark. It stood up and moved out of

the shadows on to the limb. I saw it

clearly as it passed between the moon and

me. I knew what it was. It was the devil

cat of the Ozarks, the mountain lion.

The silence was shattered by one long,

loud bawl from Old Dan. I’d never heard

my dog bawl like that. It was different.

His voice rang out over the mountains,

loud and clear. The vibration of the deep

tones rolled in the silence of the frosty

night, on and on, out over the flats, down

in the canyons, and died away in the

rimrocks, like the cry of a lost soul. Old

Dan had voiced his challenge to the devil

cat.

There was a low cough and a deep

growl from the lion. I saw him crouch. I

knew what was coming. My hands felt hot

and sweaty on the smooth ash handle of

the ax. With a blood-curdling scream he

sprang from the tree with claws outspread

and long, yellow fangs bared.

Old Dan didn’t wait. Rearing up on his

hind legs, he met the lion in the air. The

heavy weight bowled him over and over.

He wound up in a fallen treetop.

The impact of the two bodies threw the

lion off balance. Little Ann darted in. Her

aim was true. I heard the snap of her steel-

trap jaws as they closed on his throat.

With a squall of pain and rage, the big

cat rolled over on his side, dragging Little

Ann with him. His right paw reached out

and curved over her shoulder. Sinews

tightened and razor-sharp claws dug

inward. With a cry of pain, she loosened

her hold. I saw the blood squirting from

the deep wound in her shoulder. She

ignored it and bored back into the fight.

Old Dan, stunned for an instant from the

impact of the lion’s body, fought his way

from the treetop. Bawling the cry of the

damned, he charged back in.

I went berserk, and charged into the

fight.

There in the flinty hills of the Ozarks, I

fought for the lives of my dogs. I fought

with the only weapon I had, the sharp

cutting blade of a double-bitted ax.

Screaming like a madman, with tears

running down my face, I hacked and

chopped at the big snarling mountain cat.

Once, feeling the bite of the sharp

blade, the devil cat turned on me. His

yellow slitted eyes burned with hate. The

long, lithe body dipped low to the ground.

The shoulder muscles knotted and bulged.

I tried to jump back but my foot slipped

and I dropped to my knees. I knew I was

trapped. With a terrifying scream he

sprang.

I never saw my dogs when they got

between the lion and me, but they were

there. Side by side, they rose up from the

ground as one. They sailed straight into

those jaws of death, their small, red

bodies taking the ripping, slashing claws

meant for me.

I screamed and charged back into the

fight, swinging my ax, but I was careful

not to hit one of my dogs.

The battle raged on and on, down the

side of the mountain, over huckleberry

bushes, fallen logs, and rocks. It was a

rolling, tumbling mass of fighting fury. I

was in the middle of it all, falling,

screaming, crying and hacking away at

every opportunity.

I had cut the big cat several times.

Blood showed red on the bit of the ax, but

as yet I had not gotten in the fatal lick. I

knew it had to be soon for my dogs were

no match against the razor-sharp claws

and the long, yellow fangs.

The screams of the big cat and the deep

bellowing voices of my dogs echoed

through the mountains as if the demons of

hell had been turned loose. Down the side

of the mountain, the terrible fight went on,

down to the very bottom of the canyon.

The big cat had Old Dan by the throat. I

knew he was seeking to cut the all-

important vein, the jugular. At the pitiful

bawl of Old Dan, Little Ann, throwing

caution to the wind, ran in and sank her

teeth in the lion’s tough neck.

With her claws digging into the

mountain soil, she braced herself, and

started pulling. The muscles in her small

legs knotted and quivered. She was trying

hard to pull the devil cat’s fangs from the

throat of Old Dan.

In the rays of a bright Ozark moon, I

could see clearly. For an instant I saw the

broad back of the big cat. I saw the knotty

bulge of steel-bound muscle, the piston-

like jerk of the deadly hind claws, trying

for the downward stroke that could

disembowel a dog.

Raising the ax high over my head, I

brought it down with all the strength in my

body. My aim was true. Behind the

shoulders, in the broad muscular back, the

heavy blade sank with a sickening sound.

The keen edge cleaved through the tough

skin. It seemed to hiss as it sliced its way

through bone and gristle.

I left the ax where it was, sunk to the

eye in the back of the devil cat.

He loosened his hold on the throat of

Old Dan. With a scream of pain, he reared

up on his hind legs and started pawing the

air. Little Ann dangled from his neck, still

holding on. Her eyes were shut tight and

her small feet were digging and clawing at

the body.

Old Dan, spewing blood from a dozen

wounds, leaped high in the air. His long,

red body sailed in between the outspread

paws of the lion. I heard the snap of his

powerful jaws as they closed on the

throat.

The big cat screamed again. Blood

gurgled and sprayed. In a bright red mist,

it rained out over the underbrush and

rattled like sleet on the white oak leaves.

In a boxer’s stance, he stood and clawed

the air. His slitted eyes turned green with

hate. He seemed to be unaware of the two

hounds hanging from his body, and kept

staring at me. I stood in a trance and

stared back at the ghastly scene.

The breath of life was slowly leaving

him. He was dying on his feet but refusing

to go down. My ax handle stuck straight

out from his back. Blood, gushing from the

mortal wound, glistened in the moonlight.

A shudder ran through his body. He tried

once again to scream. Blood gurgled in his

throat.

It was the end of the trail for the

scourge of the mountains. No more would

he scream his challenge from the rimrocks

to the valley below. The small, harmless

calves and the young colts would be safe

from his silent stalk.

He fell toward me. It seemed that with

his last effort he was still trying to get at

me.

As his heavy body struck the ground,

something exploded in my head. I knew no

more.

When I came to, I was sitting down. It

was silent and still. A bird, disturbed by

the fight, started chirping far up on the

side of the mountain. A small winter

breeze rustled some dead leaves in the

deep canyon. A cold, crawling chill crept

over my body.

I looked over at the lion. My dogs were

still glued to his lifeless body. In his dying

convulsions the ax had become dislodged

from the wound. It lay there in the

moonlight, covered with blood.

My numb brain started working. I

thought of another time the ax had been

covered with blood. I don’t know why I

thought of Rubin Pritchard at that time, or

why I thought of these words I had often

heard: “There is a little good in all evil.”

I got to my feet and went over to my

dogs. I knew I had to inspect them to see

how badly they were hurt. It wasn’t too

hard to get Little Ann to loosen her hold. I

examined her body. She was cut in several

places, but nothing fatal. The only bad

wound she had was in her shoulder. It was

nine inches long and down to the clean,

white bone. She started licking it

immediately.

It was different with Old Dan. Try as I

might, he wouldn’t turn loose. Maybe he

could remember the night in the cave when

he was a pup. How the big cat had

screamed and how he had bawled back at

him.

I took hold of his hind legs and tried to

pull him loose. It was no use. He knew

that the hold he had was a deadly one and

he wasn’t going to let go. I tried to tell him

it was all over, that the lion was dead, to

turn loose as I wanted to see how badly he

was hurt. He couldn’t understand and

wouldn’t even open his eyes. He was

determined to hold on until the body

turned cold and stiff.

With my ax handle, I pried apart his

locked jaws. Holding onto his collar, I led

him off to one side. I couldn’t turn him

loose as I knew if I did, he would go back

to the lion.

With one hand I started examining him.

I ran my fingers through the short, red hair.

I could feel the quivering muscles and the

hot, sweaty skin. He was a bloody mess.

His long, velvety ears were shredded. His

entire body was a mass of deep, raw, red

wounds. On both sides of his rib carriage,

the sharp claws had laid the flesh open to

the bone.

His friendly old face was pitiful to see.

A razor-sharp claw had ripped down on

an angle across his right eye. It was

swollen shut. I wondered if he would ever

see from that eye again.

Blood dripped from his wounds and

fell on the white oak leaves. I saw he was

bleeding to death. With tears running

down my cheeks, I did the only thing a

hunter could do. I raked the leaves away

and let his blood drip on the black

mountain soil. Mixing it into a mud, I

worked it into his wounds to stop the flow

of blood.

With my ax in one hand and holding

onto his collar with the other, we climbed

out of the canyon. I knew if I could get him

far enough away from the lion he wouldn’t

go back.

On reaching the top, I saw the yellow

glow of my lantern. I turned Old Dan

loose and walked over and picked it up.

Not knowing exactly where I was, I

looked down out of the mountains to get

my bearings. Beyond the foothills and

fields I could see the long, white, crooked

line of steam, marking the river’s course.

Following the snakelike pattern with my

eyes, in no time I knew exactly where I

was, for I knew every bend in the river.

Anxious to get home so I could take

care of my dogs, I turned to call to them.

Little Ann was close by. She was sitting

down, licking at the wound in her

shoulder. I saw the shadowy form of Old

Dan sniffing around the tree where the lion

had been treed.

As I stood and watched him in the

moonlight, my heart swelled with pride.

Wounded though he was, he wanted to

make sure there were no more lions

around.

I called to him. In a stiff-legged trot he

came to me. I caught hold of his collar and

gave him another inspection. In the lantern

light I could see the mud-caked wounds

clearly. The bleeding had almost stopped.

I felt much better.

Little Ann came over. I knelt down and

put my arms around them. I knew that if it

hadn’t been for their loyalty and unselfish

courage I would have probably been

killed by the slashing claws of the devil

cat.

“I don’t know how I’ll ever pay you

back for what you’ve done,” I said, “but

I’ll never forget it.”

Getting up, I said, “Come on, let’s go

home so I can take care of those wounds.”

I hadn’t gone far when I heard a cry. At

first I thought it was a bird, or a night

hawk. I stood still and listened. I glanced

at Little Ann. She was looking behind me.

I turned around and looked for Old Dan.

He was nowhere in sight.

The cry came again, low and pitiful.

Instantly Little Ann started back the way

we had come. I followed as fast as I could

run.

I found Old Dan lying on his side,

pleading for help. What I saw was almost

more than I could stand. There, tangled in

the low branches of a huckleberry bush,

were the entrails of my dog. With a

gasping cry I knelt down by his side.

I knew what had happened. Far back in

the soft belly, the slashing, razor-sharp

claws of the lion had cut into the hollow.

In my inspections I had overlooked the

wound. His entrails had worked out and

had become entangled in the bush. The

forward motion of his body had done the

rest.

He whimpered as I laid my hand on his

head. A warm, red tongue flicked out at it.

With tears in my eyes, I started talking to

him. “Hang on, boy,” I said. “Everything

will be all right. I’ll take care of you.”

With trembling hands, I unwound the

entrails

from

the

bush.

With

my

handkerchief I wiped away the gravel,

leaves, and pine needles. With fingers that

shook, I worked the entrails back into the

wound.

Knowing that I couldn’t carry him and

the ax and lantern, I stuck the ax deep in

the side of a white oak tree. I blew out the

lantern and hung the handle over the other

blade. I wrapped my dog in my old

sheepskin coat and hurried for home.

Arriving home, I awakened my mother

and father. Together we doctored my

dogs. Old Dan was taken care of first.

Very gently Mama worked the entrails out

and in a pan of warm soapy water,

washed them clean of the pine needles,

leaves, and grit.

“If I only knew what I was doing,”

Mama said, as she worked, “I’d feel

better.”

With gentle hands, she worked the

entrails back through the opening. The

wound was sewn up and bandaged with a

clean white cloth.

Little Ann wasn’t hard to doctor. I held

her head while Mama cleaned her wounds

with peroxide. Feeling the bite of the

strong liquid, she whined and licked at my

hands.

“It’s all right, little girl,” I said. “You’ll

be well in no time.”

I opened the door and watched her as

she limped off to the doghouse.

Hearing a whimper, I turned around.

There in the doorway to the room stood

my sisters. I could tell by the looks on

their faces that they had been watching for

some time. They looked pitiful standing

there in their long white gowns. I felt

sorry for them.

“Will Little Ann be all right?” my

oldest sister asked.

“Yes,” I said, “she’ll be all right. She

only had one bad wound and we’ve taken

care of that.”

“Old Dan’s hurt bad, isn’t he?” she

said.

I nodded my head.

“How bad is it?” she asked.

“It’s bad,” I said. “He was cut wide

open.”

They all started crying.

“Now here,” Mama said, going over,

“you girls get back in bed. You’ll take a

death of cold being up like this in your

bare feet.”

“Mommie,” the little one said. “God

won’t let Old Dan die, will He?”

“I don’t think so, honey,” Mama said.

“Now off to bed.”

They turned and walked slowly back to

their room.

“The way your dogs are cut up,” Papa

said, “it must have been a terrible fight.”

“It was, Papa,” I said. “I never saw

anything like it. Little Ann wouldn’t have

fought the lion if it hadn’t been for Old

Dan. All she was doing was helping him.

He wouldn’t quit. He just stayed right in

there till the end. I even had to pry his

jaws loose from the lion’s throat after the

lion was dead.”

Glancing at Old Dan, Papa said, “It’s in

his blood, Billy. He’s a hunting hound,

and the best one I ever saw. He only has

two loves—you and hunting. That’s all he

knows.”

“If it hadn’t been for them, Papa,” I

said, “I probably wouldn’t be here now.”

“What do you mean,” Mama said, “you

wouldn’t be here now?”

I told them how the lion had leaped at

me and how my dogs had gotten between

him and me.

“They were so close together,” I said,

“when they came up off the ground they

looked just like one.”

There was a moaning sigh from Mama.

She covered her face with her hands and

started crying.

“I don’t know,” she sobbed, “I just

don’t know. To think how close you came

to being killed. I don’t think I can stand

any more.”

“Now, now,” Papa said, as he walked

over and put his arms around her. “Don’t

go all to pieces. It’s all over. Let’s be

thankful and do our best for Old Dan.”

“Do you think he’ll die, Papa?” I asked.

“I don’t know, Billy,” Papa said,

shaking his head. “He’s lost an awful lot

of blood and he’s a mighty sick dog. All

we can do now is wait and see.”

Our wait wasn’t long. My dog’s

breathing grew faster and faster, and there

was a terrible rattling in his throat. I knelt

down and laid his head in my lap.

Old Dan must have known he was

dying. Just before he drew one last sigh,

and a feeble thump of his tail, his friendly

gray eyes closed forever.

At first I couldn’t believe my dog was

dead. I started talking to him. “Please

don’t die, Dan,” I said. “Don’t leave me

now.”

I looked to Mama for help. Her face

was as white as the bark on a sycamore

tree and the hurt in her eyes tore at my

heart. She opened her mouth to say

something but words wouldn’t come out.

Feeling as cold as an arctic wind, I got

up and stumbled to a chair. Mama came

over and said something. Her words were

only a murmur in my ears.

Very gently Papa picked Old Dan up in

his arms and carried him out on the porch.

When he came back in the house, he said,

“Well, we did all we could do, but I guess

it wasn’t enough.”

I had never seen my father and mother

look so tired and weary as they did on that

night. I knew they wanted to comfort me,

but didn’t know what to say.

Papa tried. “Billy,” he said, “I wouldn’t

think too much about this if I were you.

It’s not good to hurt like that. I believe I’d

just try to forget it. Besides, you still have

Little Ann.”

I wasn’t even thinking about Little Ann

at that moment. I knew she was all right.

“I’m thankful that I still have her,” I

said, “but how can I forget Old Dan? He

gave his life for me, that’s what he did—

just laid down his life for me. How can I

ever forget something like that?”

Mama said, “It’s been a terrible night

for all of us. Let’s go to bed and try to get

some rest. Maybe we’ll all feel better

tomorrow.”

“No, Mama,” I said. “You and Papa go

on to bed. I think I’ll stay up for a while. I

couldn’t sleep anyway.”

Mama started to protest, but Papa shook

his head. Arm in arm they walked from the

room.

Long after my mother and father had

retired, I sat by the fire trying to think and

couldn’t. I felt numb all over. I knew my

dog was dead, but I couldn’t believe it. I

didn’t want to. One day they were both

alive and happy. Then that night, just like

that, one of them was dead.

I didn’t know how long I had been

sitting there when I heard a noise out on

the porch. I got up, walked over to the

door, and listened. It came again, a low

whimper and a scratchy sound.

I could think of only one thing that could

have made the noise. It had to be my dog.

He wasn’t dead. He had come back to life.

With a pounding heart, I opened the door

and stepped out on the porch.

What I saw was more than I could

stand. The noise I had heard had been

made by Little Ann. All her life she had

slept by Old Dan’s side. And although he

was dead, she had left the doghouse, had

come back to the porch, and snuggled up

close to his side.

She looked up at me and whimpered. I

couldn’t stand it. I didn’t know I was

running until I tripped and fell. I got to my

feet and ran on and on, down through our

fields of shocked corn, until I fell face

down on the river’s bank. There in the

gray shadows of a breaking dawn, I cried

until I could cry no more.

The churring of gray squirrels in the

bright morning sun told me it was daylight.

I got to my feet and walked back to the

house.

Coming up through our barn lot, I saw

my father feeding our stock. He came over

and said, “Breakfast is about ready.”

“I don’t want any breakfast, Papa,” I

said. “I’m not hungry and I have a job to

do. I’ll have to bury my dog.”

“I tell you what,” he said, “I’m not

going to be very busy today, so let’s have

a good breakfast and then I’ll help you.”

“No, Papa,” I said. “I’ll take care of it.

You go and eat breakfast. Tell Mama I’m

not hungry.”

I saw a hurt look in my father’s eyes.

Shaking his head, he turned and walked

away.

From rough pine slabs, I made a box for

my dog. It was a crude box but it was the

best I could do. With strips of burlap and

corn shucks, I padded the inside.

Up on the hillside, at the foot of a

beautiful red oak tree, I dug his grave.

There where the wild mountain flowers

would grow in the spring, I laid him away.

I had a purpose in burying my dog up

there on the hillside. It was a beautiful

spot. From there one could see the country

for miles, the long white crooked line of

the river, the tall thick timber of the

bottoms, the sycamore, birch, and box

elder. I thought perhaps that on moonlight

nights Old Dan would be able to hear the

deep voices of the hounds as they rolled

out of the river bottoms on the frosty air.

After the last shovel of dirt was patted

in place, I sat down and let my mind drift

back through the years. I thought of the old

K. C. Baking Powder can, and the first

time I saw my pups in the box at the depot.

I thought of the fifty dollars, the nickels

and dimes, and the fishermen and

blackberry patches.

I looked at his grave and, with tears in

my eyes, I voiced these words: “You were

worth it, old friend, and a thousand times

over.”

In my heart I knew that there in the

grave lay a man’s best friend.

Two days later, when I came in from

the bottoms where my father and I were

clearing land, my mother said, “Billy, you

had better look after your dog. She won’t

eat.”

I started looking for her. I went to the

barn, the corncrib, and looked under the

porch. I called her name. It was no use.

I rounded up my sisters and asked if

they had seen Little Ann. The youngest one

said she had seen her go down into the

garden. I went there, calling her name. She

wouldn’t answer my call.

I was about to give up, and then I saw

her. She had wiggled her way far back

under the thorny limbs of a blackberry

bush in the corner of the garden. I talked to

her and tried to coax her out. She wouldn’t

budge. I got down on my knees and

crawled back to her. As I did, she raised

her head and looked at me.

Her eyes told the story. They weren’t

the soft gray eyes I had looked into so

many times. They were dull and cloudy.

There was no fire, no life. I couldn’t

understand.

I carried her back to the house. I offered

her food and water. She wouldn’t touch it.

I noticed how lifeless she was. I thought

perhaps she had a wound I had

overlooked. I felt and probed with my

fingers. I could find nothing.

My father came and looked at her. He

shook his head and said, “Billy, it’s no

use. The life has gone out of her. She has

no will to live.”

He turned and walked away.

I couldn’t believe it. I couldn’t.

With eggs and rich cream, I made a

liquid. I pried her mouth open and poured

it down. She responded to nothing I did. I

carried her to the porch, and laid her in

the same place I had laid the body of Old

Dan. I covered her with gunny sacks.

All through the night I would get up and

check on her. Next morning I took warm

fresh milk and again I opened her mouth

and fed her. It was a miserable day for

me. At noon it was the same. My dog had

just given up. There was no will to live.

That evening when I came in from the

fields, she was gone. I hurried to my

mother. Mama told me she had seen her go

up the hollow from the house, so weak she

could hardly stand. Mama had watched

her until she had disappeared in the

timber.

I hurried up the hollow, calling her

name. I called and called. I went up to the

head of it, still calling her name and

praying she would come to me. I climbed

out onto the flats; looking, searching, and

calling. It was no use. My dog was gone.

I had a thought, a ray of hope. I just

knew I’d find her at the grave of Old Dan.

I hurried there.

I found her lying on her stomach, her

hind legs stretched out straight, and her

front feet folded back under her chest. She

had laid her head on his grave. I saw the

trail where she had dragged herself

through the leaves. The way she lay there,

I thought she was alive. I called her name.

She made no movement. With the last

ounce of strength in her body, she had

dragged herself to the grave of Old Dan.

Kneeling down by her side, I reached

out and touched her. There was no

response, no whimpering cry or friendly

wag of her tail. My little dog was dead.

I laid her head in my lap and with tear-

filled eyes gazed up into the heavens. In a

choking voice, I asked, “Why did they

have to die? Why must I hurt so? What

have I done wrong?”

I heard a noise behind me. It was my

mother. She sat down and put her arm

around me.

“You’ve done no wrong, Billy,” she

said. “I know this seems terrible and I

know how it hurts, but at one time or

another, everyone suffers. Even the Good

Lord suffered while He was here on

earth.”

“I know, Mama,” I said, “but I can’t

understand. It was bad enough when Old

Dan died. Now Little Ann is gone. Both of

them gone, just like that.”

“Billy, you haven’t lost your dogs

altogether,” Mama said. “You’ll always

have their memory. Besides, you can have

some more dogs.”

I rebelled at this. “I don’t want any

more dogs,” I said. “I won’t ever want

another dog. They wouldn’t be like Old

Dan and Little Ann.”

“We all feel that way, Billy,” she said.

“I do especially. They’ve fulfilled a

prayer that I thought would never be

answered.”

“I don’t believe in prayers any more,” I

said. “I prayed for my dogs, and now

look, both of them are dead.”

Mama was silent for a moment; then, in

a gentle voice, she said, “Billy, sometimes

it’s hard to believe that things like this can

happen, but there’s always an answer.

When you’re older, you’ll understand

better.”

“No, I won’t,” I said. “I don’t care if

I’m a hundred years old, I’ll never

understand why my dogs had to die.”

As if she were talking to someone far

away, I heard her say in a low voice, “I

don’t know what to say. I can’t seem to

find the right words.”

Looking up to her face, I saw that her

eyes were flooded with tears.

“Mama, please don’t cry,” I said. “I

didn’t mean what I said.”

“I know you didn’t,” she said, as she

squeezed me up tight. “It’s just your way

of fighting back.”

I heard the voice of my father calling to

us from the house.

“Come now,” Mama said. “I have

supper ready and your father wants to talk

to you. I think when you’ve heard what he

has to say, you’ll feel better.”

“I can’t leave Little Ann like this,

Mama,” I said. “It’ll be cold tonight. I

think I’ll carry her back to the house.”

“No, I don’t think you should do that,”

Mama said. “Your sisters would go all to

pieces. Let’s make her comfortable here.”

Raking some dead leaves into a pile,

she picked Little Ann up and laid her in

them. Taking off my coat, I spread it over

her body. I dreaded to think of what I had

to do on the morrow.

My father and sisters were waiting for

us on the porch. Mama told them the sad

story. My sisters broke down and started

crying. They ran to Mama and buried their

faces in her long cotton dress.

Papa came over and laid his hand on

my shoulder. “Billy,” he said, “there are

times in a boy’s life when he has to stand

up like a man. This is one of those times. I

know what you’re going through and how

it hurts, but there’s always an answer. The

Good Lord has a reason for everything He

does.”

“There couldn’t be any reason for my

dogs to die, Papa,” I said. “There just

couldn’t. They hadn’t done anything

wrong.”

Papa glanced at Mama. Getting no help

from her, he said, “It’s getting cold out

here. Let’s go in the house. I have

something to show you.”

“Guess what we’re having for supper,”

Mama said, as we turned to enter the

house. “Your favorite, Billy, sweet potato

pie. You’ll like that, won’t you?”

I nodded my head, but my heart wasn’t

in it.

Papa didn’t follow us into the kitchen.

He turned and entered his bedroom.

When he came into the room, he had a

small shoe box in his hand. I recognized

the box by the bright blue ribbon tied

around it. Mama kept her valuables in it.

A silence settled over the room.

Walking to the head of the table, Papa set

the box down and started untying the

ribbon. His hands were trembling as he

fumbled with the knot. With the lid off, he

reached in and started lifting out bundles

of money.

After stacking them in a neat pile, he

raised his head and looked straight at me.

“Billy,” he said, “you know how your

mother has prayed that some day we’d

have enough money to move out of these

hills and into town so that you children

could get an education.”

I nodded my head.

“Well,” he said, in a low voice,

“because of your dogs, her prayers have

been answered. This is the money earned

by Old Dan and Little Ann. I’ve managed

to make the farm feed us and clothe us and

I’ve saved every cent your furs brought in.

We now have enough.”

“Isn’t it wonderful,” Mama said. “It’s

just like a miracle.”

“I think it is a miracle,” Papa said.

“Remember, Billy said a prayer when he

asked for his pups and then there were

your prayers. Billy got his pups. Through

those dogs your prayers were answered.

Yes, I’m sure it is a miracle.”

“If he gave them to me, then why did he

take them away?” I asked.

“I think there’s an answer for that, too,”

Papa said. “You see, Billy, your mother

and I had decided not to separate you from

your dogs. We knew how much you loved

them. We decided that when we moved to

town we’d leave you here with your

grandpa for a while. He needs help

anyway. But I guess the Good Lord didn’t

want that to happen. He doesn’t like to see

families split up. That’s why they were

taken away.”

I knew my father was a firm believer in

fate. To him everything that happened was

the will of God, and in his Bible he could

always find the answers.

Papa could see that his talk had had

very little effect on me. With a sorrowful

look on his face, he sat down and said,

“Now let us give thanks for our food and

for all the wonderful things God has done

for us. I’ll say a special prayer and ask

Him to help Billy.”

I barely heard what Papa had to say.

During the meal, I could tell that no one

was enjoying the food. As soon as it was

over, I went to my room and lay down on

the bed.

Mama came in. “Why don’t you go to

bed,” she said, “and get a good night’s

sleep. You’ll feel better tomorrow.”

“No, I won’t, Mama,” I said. “I’ll have

to bury Little Ann tomorrow.”

“I know,” she said, as she turned my

covers down. “I’ll help if you want me

to.”

“No, Mama,” I said, “I don’t want

anyone to help. I’d rather do it all by

myself.”

“Billy, you’re always doing things by

yourself,” Mama said. “That’s not right.

Everyone needs help some time in his

life.”

“I know, Mama,” I said,” but, please,

not this time. Ever since my dogs were

puppies, we’ve always been together—

just us three. We hunted together and

played together. We even went swimming

together.

“Did you know, Mama, that Little Ann

used to come every night and peek in my

window just to see if I was all right? I

guess that’s why I want to be by myself

when I bury her.”

“Now say your prayers and go to sleep.

I’m sure you’ll feel better in the morning.”

I didn’t feel like saying any prayers that

night. I was hurting too much. Long after

the rest of the family had gone to bed, I lay

staring into the darkness, trying to think

and not able to.

Some time in the night I got up, tiptoed

to my window, and looked out at my

doghouse. It looked so lonely and empty

sitting there in the moonlight. I could see

that the door was slightly ajar. I thought of

the many times I had lain in my bed and

listened to the squeaking of the door as my

dogs went in and out. I didn’t know I was

crying until I felt the tears roll down my

cheeks.

Mama must have heard me get up. She

came in and put her arms around me.

“Billy,” she said, in a quavering voice,

“you’ll just have to stop this. You’re going

to make yourself sick and I don’t think I

can stand any more of it.”

“I can’t, Mama,” I said. “It hurts so

much, I just can’t. I don’t want you to feel

bad just because I do.”

“I can’t help it, Billy,” she said. “Come

now and get back in bed. I’m afraid you’ll

catch cold.”

After she had tucked me in, she sat on

the bed for a while. As if she were talking

to the darkness, I heard her say, “If only

there were some way I could help—

something I could do.”

“No one can help, Mama,” I said. “No

one can bring my dogs back.”

“I know,” she said, as she got up to

leave the room, “but there must be

something—there just has to be.”

After Mama had left the room, I buried

my face in my pillow and cried myself to

sleep.

The next morning I made another box. It

was smaller than the first one. Each nail I

drove in the rough pine boards caused the

knot in my throat to get bigger and bigger.

My sisters came to help. They stood it

for a while, then with tears streaming, they

ran for the house.

I buried Little Ann by the side of Old

Dan. I knew that was where she wanted to

be. I also buried a part of my life along

with my dog.

Remembering a sandstone ledge I had

seen while prowling the woods, I went

there. I picked out a nice stone and carried

it back to the graves. Then, with

painstaking care, I carved their names

deep in its red surface.

As I stood looking at the two graves, I

tried hard to understand some of the things

my father had told me, but I couldn’t—I

was still hurting and still had that empty

feeling.

I went to Mama and had a talk with her.

“Mama,” I asked, “do you think God

made a heaven for all good dogs?”

“Yes,” she said, “I’m sure He did.”

“Do you think He made a place for dogs

to hunt? You know—just like we have

here on our place—with mountains and

sycamore trees, rivers and cornfields, and

old rail fences? Do you think He did?”

“From what I’ve read in the Good

Book, Billy,” she said, “He put far more

things up there than we have here. Yes,

I’m sure He did.”

I was thinking this over when Mama

came up to me and started tucking my shirt

in. “Do you feel better now?” she asked.

“It still hurts, Mama,” I said, as I buried

my face in her dress, “but I do feel a little

better.”

“I’m glad,” she said, as she patted my

head. “I don’t like to see my little boy hurt

like this.”

XX

THE FOLLOWING SPRING WE LEFT THE OZARKS. THE

DAY WE moved I thought everyone would be

sad, but it was just the opposite. Mama

seemed to be the happiest one of all. I

could hear her laughing and joking with

my sisters as they packed things. She had a

glow in her eyes I had never seen before

and it made me feel good.

I even noticed a change in Papa. He

didn’t have that whipped look on his face

any more. He was in high spirits as we

carried the furniture out to our wagon.

After the last item was stored in the

wagon, Papa helped Mama to the spring

seat and we were ready to go.

“Papa, would you mind waiting a few

minutes?” I asked. “I’d like to say good-

bye to my dogs.”

“Sure,” he said, smiling. “We have

plenty of time. Go right ahead.”

Nearing the graves, I saw something

different. It looked like a wild bush had

grown up and practically covered the two

little mounds. It made me angry to think

that an old bush would dare grow so close

to the graves. i took out my knife,

intending to cut it down.

When I walked up close enough to see

what it was, I sucked in a mouthful of air

and stopped. I couldn’t believe what I was

seeing. There between the graves, a

beautiful red fern had sprung up from the

rich mountain soil. It was fully two feet

tall and its long red leaves had reached

out in rainbow arches curved over the

graves of my dogs.

I had heard the old Indian legend about

the red fern. How a little Indian boy and

girl were lost in a blizzard and had frozen

to death. In the spring, when they were

found, a beautiful red fern had grown up

between their two bodies. The story went

on to say that only an angel could plant the

seeds of a red fern, and that they never

died; where one grew, that spot was

sacred.

Remembering the meaning of the

legend, I turned and started hollering for

Mama.

“Mama! Mama!” I shouted. “Come

here! And hurry! You won’t believe it.”

In a frightened voice, she shouted back,

“What is it, Billy? Are you all right?”

“I’m all right, Mama,” I shouted, “but

hurry. You just won’t believe it.”

Holding her long skirt in her hand and

with a frightened look on her face, Mama

came puffing up the hillside. Close behind

her came Papa and my sisters.

“What is it, Billy?” Mama asked, in a

scared voice. “Are you all right?”

“Look!” I said, pointing at the red fern.

Staring wide-eyed, Mama gasped and

covered her mouth with her hand. I heard

her say, almost in a whisper, “Oh-h-h-h,

it’s a red fern—a sacred red fern.”

She walked over and very tenderly

started fingering the long red leaves. In an

awed voice, she said, “All my life I’ve

wanted to see one. Now I have. It’s almost

unbelievable.”

“Don’t touch it, Mama,” my oldest

sister whispered. “It was planted by an

angel.”

Mama smiled and asked, “Have you

heard the legend?”

“Yes,

Mama,”

my

sister

said.

“Grandma told me the story, and I believe

it, too.”

With a serious look on his face, Papa

said, “These hills are full of legends. Up

until now I’ve never paid much attention

to them, but now I don’t know. Perhaps

there is something to the legend of the red

fern. Maybe this is God’s way of helping

Billy understand why his dogs died.”

“I’m sure it is, Papa,” I said, “and I do

understand. I feel different now, and I

don’t hurt any more.”

“Come,” Mama said, “let’s go back to

the wagon. Billy wants to be alone with

his dogs for a while.”

Just as they turned to leave, I heard

Papa murmur in a low voice, “Wonderful

indeed is the work of our Lord.”

As I stood looking at the two graves, I

noticed things I hadn’t seen before. Wild

violets, rooster heads, and mountain

daisies had completely covered the two

little mounds. A summer breeze gushed

down from the rugged hills. I felt its warm

caress as it fanned my face. It hummed a

tune in the underbrush and rustled the

leaves on the huge red oak. The red fern

wavered and danced to the music of the

hills.

Taking off my cap, I bowed my head. In

a choking voice, I said, “Good-bye, Old

Dan and Little Ann. I’ll never forget you;

and this I know—if God made room in

heaven for all good dogs, I know He made

a special place for you.”

With a heavy heart, I turned and walked

away. I knew that as long as I lived I’d

never forget the two little graves and the

sacred red fern.

Not far from our home, the road wound

its way up and over a hill. At the top Papa

stopped the team. We all stood up and

looked back. It was a beautiful sight, one

I’ll never forget.

As I stood and looked at the home of my

birth, it looked sad and lonely. There was

no spiral of lazy blue smoke twisting from

the rock chimney, no white leghorn hen

chasing a June bug, no horse or cow

standing with head down and tail

switching.

I saw I had left the door to the barn loft

open. A tuft of hay hung out. It wavered

gently in the warm summer breeze.

Something scurried across the vacant

yard and disappeared under the barn. It

was Samie, our house cat. I heard my little

sister say in a choking voice, “Mommie,

we forgot Samie.”

There was no answer.

To the left, I could see our fields and

the zigzag lines of rail fences. Farther

down, I could see the shimmering

whiteness of the tall sycamores. My vision

blurred as tears came to my eyes.

The sorrowful silence was broken by

my mother’s voice. She asked, “Billy, can

you see it?”

“See what, Mama?” I asked.

“The red fern,” she said.

My oldest sister spoke up. “I can see

it,” she said.

Rubbing my eyes, I looked to the

hillside above our home. There it stood in

all its wild beauty, a waving red banner in

a carpet of green. It seemed to be saying,

“Good-bye, and don’t worry, for I’ll be

here always.”

Hearing a sniffling, I turned around. My

three little sisters had started crying.

Mama said something to Papa. I heard the

jingle of the trace chains as they tightened

in the singletrees.

Our wagon moved on.

I have never been back to the Ozarks.

All I have left are my dreams and

memories, but if God is willing, some day

I’d like to go back—back to those

beautiful hills. I’d like to walk again on

trails I walked in my boyhood days.

Once again I’d like to face a mountain

breeze and smell the wonderful scent of

the redbuds, and papaws, and the

dogwoods. With my hands I’d like to

caress the cool white bark of a sycamore.

I’d like to take a walk far back in the

flinty hills and search for a souvenir, an

old double-bitted ax stuck deep in the side

of a white oak tree. I know the handle has

long since rotted away with time. Perhaps

the rusty frame of a coal-oil lantern still

hangs there on the blade.

I’d like to see the old home place, the

barn and the rail fences. I’d like to pause

under the beautiful red oaks where my

sisters and I played in our childhood. I’d

like to walk up the hillside to the graves

of my dogs.

I’m sure the red fern has grown and has

completely covered the two little mounds.

I know it is still there, hiding its secret

beneath those long, red leaves, but it

wouldn’t be hidden from me for part of my

life is buried there, too.

Yes, I know it is still there, for in my

heart I believe the legend of the sacred red

fern.

WILSON RAWLS was born on a small farm in the

Oklahoma Ozarks. He spent his youth in the heart of the

Cherokee nation, prowling the hills and river bottoms with

his only companion, an old bluetick hound. Rawls’s first

writing was done with his fingers in the dust of the

country roads and in the sands along the river, and his

earliest stories were told to his dog. Not until Rawls’s

family moved to Muskogee and he could attend high

school did he encounter books. Where the Red Fern

Grows has become a modern classic and has been made

into a widely acclaimed motion picture.





Document Outline


Cover

Also Available from Laurel-Leaf Books

Title Page

Copyright

Dedication Chapter I

Chapter II

Chapter III

Chapter IV

Chapter V

Chapter VI

Chapter VII

Chapter VIII

Chapter IX

Chapter X

Chapter XI

Chapter XII

Chapter XIII

Chapter XIV

Chapter XV

Chapter XVI

Chapter XVII

Chapter XVIII

Chapter XIX

Chapter XX





About the Author





